mechanism for applying for degrees based on practical achievements. Promote a more scientific and standardized peer review mechanism among experts, highlighting the effectiveness of teaching and nurturing in the evaluation of teacher titles, awards, and recognitions. Strengthen the construction of research integrity and academic style, increase the investigation and handling of academic misconduct, and create a healthy academic ecosystem. Explore the use of artificial intelligence, big data, and other digital technologies to empower educational evaluation reform, effectively reducing the burden on grassroots levels.

(V) Promote the digital transformation of education
Deeply implement the national digital education strategy, carry out the "Artificial Intelligence + Education" initiative, and promote profound changes in educational concepts, training models, examination and assessment, research paradigms, and governance mechanisms. Strengthen and effectively utilize the national smart education public service platform, expanding the reach of quality educational resources. Enhance the digital foundational capabilities of schools and conduct research on new teaching models. Build a national pilot base for artificial intelligence (education) applications and create an open-source innovation ecosystem. Strengthen the construction of digital Chinese language resources. Promote the construction and application of a new national corpus. Implement a national language technology empowerment plan for key areas. Deepen data empowerment in educational governance and improve the level of educational government services. Improve the system of digital education standards and norms, and strengthen ethical norms and safety supervision for artificial intelligence.

(VI) Improve the strategic investment mechanism and legal guarantees for education
Research and establish a new mechanism for the allocation of educational funds that adapts to changes in the school-age population, optimize the assessment method of "two increases without decreases," strengthen provincial-level coordination, implement fiscal expenditure responsibilities, and ensure that the proportion of national fiscal education expenditure to GDP exceeds 4%. Improve the budget allocation system for various levels and types of education, reasonably determine and timely increase the relevant funding.