Integrate artificial intelligence into the local curriculum system, guiding various regions to develop artificial intelligence curriculum guidelines, clarifying curriculum objectives, content, and class hour requirements for each educational stage. Encourage interdisciplinary teaching of artificial intelligence, promoting the integration of artificial intelligence education into after-school services, research and study practices, and other aspects. Adhere to the combination of science and technology education with humanities education, focusing on the enlightenment and spiritual development of students, guiding them to scientifically understand and reasonably utilize intelligent technology, enhancing their intelligence literacy, stimulating their curiosity, cultivating innovative thinking, and improving their cognitive thinking and ability to solve complex problems. Strengthen the establishment of artificial intelligence education bases in primary and secondary schools, supporting schools in rural and remote areas to effectively offer artificial intelligence courses using national platforms.

(2) Cultivate high-level talents for the intelligent era. Promote artificial intelligence as a public foundational course in higher education, categorizing and compiling course materials by discipline and major, ensuring that all students master knowledge of artificial intelligence. Based on the characteristics of artificial intelligence technology, create "short, practical, and innovative" cutting-edge courses. Optimize traditional talent training programs for various disciplines, guiding universities to offer interdisciplinary and integrated courses in artificial intelligence, enriching the curriculum with interdisciplinary and cross-major course groups, and cultivating composite interdisciplinary talents. Adjust and optimize the setting of disciplines and majors according to the intelligent upgrading of the industrial structure, establishing a number of new disciplines and majors that adapt to new technologies, new industries, and new business formats. Integrate the strengths of high-level research universities, leading technology enterprises, national laboratories, etc., deepen interdisciplinary collaboration, integration of industry and education, and the fusion of science and education, exploring new models for cultivating top innovative talents in artificial intelligence.

(3) Promote the upgrading and transformation of traditional vocational education programs. Timely assess the structural impact of artificial intelligence on vocational education, and adjust accordingly.