2018/09/08 14)14Pan-Canadian Artificial Intelligence Strategy https://www.cifar.ca/ai/pan-canadian-artificial-intelligence-strategy Home> AI> Pan-Canadian Artiﬁcial Intelligence Strategy Pan-Canadian Artiﬁcial Intelligence Strategy Overview CIFAR is leading the Government of Canada’s $125 million Pan- Canadian Artiﬁcial Intelligence Strategy, working in partnership with three newly established AI institutes – the Alberta Machine Intelligence Institute (Amii) in Edmonton, Mila in Montreal and the Vector Institute in Toronto. Announced in the 2017 federal budget, the Strategy has four major goals: • To increase the number of outstanding artiﬁcial intelligence researchers and skilled graduates in Canada. • To establish interconnected nodes of scientiﬁc excellence in Canada’s three major centres for artiﬁcial intelligence in Edmonton, Montreal and Toronto. • To develop global thought leadership on the economic, ethical, policy and legal implications of advances in artiﬁcial intelligence. • To support a national research community on artiﬁcial intelligence. Expected Results Over the next ﬁve years, CIFAR will collaborate with the Canadian research community to: OverviewExpected ResultsProgramsPan-Canadian AI Strategy National MeetingLeadership FRABOUTRESEARCHAIEXCHANGESUPPORT US 2018/09/08 14)14Pan-Canadian Artificial Intelligence Strategy https://www.cifar.ca/ai/pan-canadian-artificial-intelligence-strategy • enhance Canada’s international proﬁle in AI research and training; • increase the productivity in AI academic research and enhanced capacity to generate world-class research and innovation; • increase collaboration across geographic areas of excellence in AI research and strengthen relationships with receptors of innovation; • attract and retain outstanding AI talent in Canadian universities and industry; • and translate AI research discoveries in the private and public sectors leading to socio-economic beneﬁts for Canada. Programs • AI Institutes. The strategy funds three centres of excellence in AI research and innovation in Canada’s three major centres for deep learning and reinforcement learning research – in Edmonton, Montreal and Toronto. These three AI Institutes provide a critical mass of research and innovation excellence, and work with researchers, industry and other stakeholders across Canada. • Canada CIFAR AI (CCAI) Chairs Program. As international competition for machine learning researchers intensiﬁes, the Canada CIFAR AI Chairs Program will help Canada retain and recruit top academic researchers and allow them the freedom to carry out research, train students, and interact with industry. The CCAI Chairs Program supports the recruitment and training of young researchers, including both graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. It includes funding for graduate students who will work with the CCAI Chairs, as well as training for students at the three AI Institutes. All nominations for CCAI Chairs must be made by the AI Institutes. Successful nominees will be leaders in their ﬁeld of AI research, or in the case of early career researchers, have demonstrated potential to become leaders. The research strengths and expertise of CCAI Chairs must align with the research priorities of the nominating AI Institute. Universities that are interested in exploring a potential nomination for a faculty member should have their Vice-President Research or designate contact Elissa Strome, who will provide the contact information for the appropriate AI Institute. • AI & Society Program. Advances in AI will have profound implications for the economy, government and society. The Strategy funds policy-relevant working groups to examine these implications, publish their ﬁndings and inform the public and policy- makers. • National AI Program. The Strategy includes a program of national activities that build on CIFAR’s success with summer and winter schools in AI, and support activities that are national and collaborative in scope such as an annual meeting of Canada CIFAR AI Chairs. Our National Program activities will ensure that Canada is well-positioned for sustained global leadership in AI research and innovation. 2018/09/08 14)14Pan-Canadian Artificial Intelligence Strategy https://www.cifar.ca/ai/pan-canadian-artificial-intelligence-strategy Pan-Canadian AI Strategy NationalMeeting December 3, 2018, Montreal Save the date and check back here regularly for more details. Leadership DR. ELISSA STROME, Executive Director International Scientiﬁc Advisory Committee PROF. SHIRLEY TILGHMAN, OC, FRS Chair; President Emerita, Princeton University; United States DR. JENNIFER CHAYES Technical Fellow & Managing Director; Microsoft Research New England, New York City and Montreal DR. VICTORIA KRAKOVNA Research Scientist, DeepMind; Co- Founder, Future of Life Institute, United Kingdom PROF. YANN LECUN Co-Director, CIFAR Program in Learning in Machines & Brains; Chief AI Scientist, Facebook Professor, New York University, United States PROF. FEI-FEI LI Director, Stanford Artiﬁcial Intelligence Lab; Associate Professor, Stanford University; Chief Scientist of AI/ML, Google Cloud, United States 2018/09/08 14)14Pan-Canadian Artificial Intelligence Strategy https://www.cifar.ca/ai/pan-canadian-artificial-intelligence-strategy PROF. ANTOINE PETIT Member, CIFAR Research Council; President, National Center for Scientiﬁc Research (CNRS), France PROF. SEBASTIAN SEUNG Advisor, CIFAR Program in Learning in Machines & Brains; Evnin Professor in Neuroscience, Professor of Computer Science, Princeton Neuroscience Institute; Chief Research Scientist, Samsung United States PROF. MAX WELLING CIFAR Fellow, Program in Learning in Machines & Brains; Vice-President Technologies, Qualcomm; Research Chair in Machine Learning University of Amsterdam, Netherlands BACK TO TOP Support Us Become part of the change. Join a community that is advancing research on the frontiers of questions that matter. Donate Now 2018/09/08 14)14Pan-Canadian Artificial Intelligence Strategy https://www.cifar.ca/ai/pan-canadian-artificial-intelligence-strategy Contact Us MaRS Centre, West Tower 661 University Ave., Suite 505 , Toronto, ON M5G 1M1 T: 416.971.4251 ABOUT RESEARCH AI EXCHANGE SUPPORT US © Copyright 2018 Subscribe toour newsletter Stay updated with our news, events, conferences and workshops and latest discoveries around the world. Subscribe Read the latest issue of News & Ideas