;or/III
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   121
Communications and Digital Technologies, Department of/ Kommunikasie en Digitale Tegnologieë, Departement van
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
NOTICE 591 OF 2020 
591 C ommunications and Digital Technologies: Summary Report and Recommendations presented by Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution; and Diagnostic Report of the Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution March 2020  43834
GENERAL NOTICE
NOTICE No…. OF 2020
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
I, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams, Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies, 
hereby publish, in accordance with paragraph 3.5 of the Terms of Reference of the 
Presidential Commission on the 4
th Industrial Revolution, published in Government 
Gazette No. 42388 on 9 April 2019, both long and short versions of the Report of the 
Presidential Commission on the 4
th Industrial Revolution (PC4IR) for general 
information. 
____________________________
Ms Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams, MP 
Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies
Date: 

;Ution
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
122  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

Summary Report
Recommendations
Presented by the
Presidential Commission On The Fourth Industrial Revolution
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   123

r 
IITTrrp- 
2 
I 
NOI Ihi VI 3H1 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
124  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

P444(117;
Waf`¡_.
PC4IH COMMf551ONER
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   125

THE W- Ki; AM HAI.=
1
A 'Pi-
Cü
t 4
SG4e
e
n:;
hNtt.S1RSA S
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
126  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

PREAMBLE
THE GRAND CHALLENGES
PART 01: BACKGROUND
INTRODUCTION
THE SOCIO- ECONOMY IN HISTORICAL CONTEXT
KEY FEATURES OF SOUTH AFRICA'S SOCIO- ECONOMY
SUMMARY OF KEY IDEAS
PART 02 DEFINING THE 4 AIR
THE HISTORY OF INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTIONS
PART 03: CROSS COUNTRY 4IR STRATEGY COMPARISON
CASTING OUR EYE BEYOND SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA'S INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
8 KEY LESSONS FOR SOUTH AFRICA
PART 04: DIAGNOSTIC SUMMARY
INDUSTRIALISATION
PRIORITISING TECHNOLOGICAL INVESTMENTS FOR SOCIO- ECONOMIC SECTORS IDENTIFIED
READYING FOR COMMERCIALISATION AND INDUSTRIALISATION
HUMAN CAPITAL AND THE FUTURE OF WORK
SA'S HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT ECOSYSTEM
CREATING AN ENABLING ENVIRONMENT
THE GOVERNMENT AS DIRECTOR OF TECHNO- INDUSTRIAL OUTCOMES
THE GOVERNMENT AS REGULATOR OF TECHNO -INDUSTRIAL OUTCOMES AND SOCIO- ECONOMIC IMPACTS
THE PROCESS FOR POLICY DEVELOPMENT
PART 05: WAY FORWARD
4IR TECHNOLOGY IS NASCENT
THE STATE IS REQUIRED TO BE FISCALLY CREATIVE
CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION & ADAPTATION MUST BE INTEGRATED INTO ALL PLANNING
MAKING CHOICES: THE NDP AND SA'S 4IR FUTURE
PRIORITISING ECONOMIC SECTORS AND SOCIAL INDICATORS
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   127

ti
_..
ti
to; n<t00014a0 0.1rn mvi
thin ht. 01 Vk cálnUJt
lM!d r4W¡I.0InlVl!v
Pnrt.¡U h0010010. Il rrt, 'UI
kw.>dtulltidocodpn
bnnun,
Only 12;, of learners from
the poorest schools go to
university. They only
con i)! se 26 :, of the total
university population.
Only 12,1of South
Ah icans have a
post -secondary
qualification. GB,2. have n
secondary education.
38.3' cf the White
population has a
post -secondary education.
compared with 21,for the
Indian population; 3,F - foi
the Black population and
E3,1for the Coloured
population.
However, females have
higher participation catos
(2- -5' j in education.
across levels.
On average, males enjoy
employment rates that
are 10-20higher than
females, across education
levels
DIAGNOSTIC REPORT: SUMMARY & KEY FINDINGS
South Africa's vision for development is premised on resolving the nation's
historical scars, expressed as the 'triple scourge': Poverty, Unemployment
and Inequality. The 4IR Commission is thus a lever, activated by the State,
to provide leadership for all of society in understanding and navigating
what will be a fundamentally altered future. Indeed, this presently evolving
future requires the government to play a central role. The role of the 4IR
Commission is thus to clearly articulate the role of the State as well as all
institutional actors and citizens in their capacity as equal protagonists in
the story of our future.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   131

1.1.1111.11MIP&OWPaNMI 0-1il;.is<-e IWO -01,01W.._
T.,4
7
.,g4,0011A
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
132  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

im
Science,
Technology
&Innovation
Et
Infrastructure
& Resources
Human Capital
d Future
World of Work
rt.._,
C: 1- 1
Capital Markets
d Financing
4
Commercialisation
ö Industrialisation
Z
DIAGNOSTIC REPORT: SUMMARY & KEY FINDINGS JAN
Introduction
The Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution(PC4IR),
established and chaired by The President of South Africa, has beentasked
with a comprehensive set of responsibilities under its Terms ofReference
(TORs). These include proposing the country's overarching strategyfor the
Fourth Industrial Revolution as well as making recommendationsregarding
the institutional frameworks and roles of various sectors of society withinthe
broad plan.
included in Annexure A.
Policy & Legal
Integration, Programme
Management & Communications
Socio- Economic Impact
The possibilities and prioritisation of pathways presented by the 41R are given materialdirection
and purpose within the South African National Development Plan (NDP) towards2030. The NDP,
South Africa's long -term development strategy, contains critical targets for theeradication of
poverty and the reduction of unemployment and extreme inequality. Thus, in evaluatingthe socio-
economic impacts and opportunities of the 4IR, there is an opportunity to addressthe core
concerns of the NDP and in so doing, provide a policy- embeddedpath towards our constitutional
objectives in the context If a significantly improved and altered future.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   133

1.de la Escosura, L.P. (2004), Exceptionalism and Industrialisation: Britain and its European Rivals, 1688 -1815. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press;Harvie, C., Martin,
G., and Scharf, A. Eds. (1970). Industrialisation and Culture, 1830 -1914. London and Basingstoke: MacMillan and Co. LTD; Hopkins, E. (2009).Industrial Britai n: A Social
History. 1830 - 1951. London: Routledge.
2, 3Evans. P. (1998). 'Transferable Lessons: Re- Examining the Institutional Prerequisites of East Asian Economic Policies:The Journal of DevelopmentStudies Vol !s4) 6. pp.
66 -86; Gareth. A. (2010).' The Developmental State and Labour- Intensive Industrialisation:ate Development' Reconsidered'. Economic I listory of Developing kepions
Vol. 25: 1, pp. 51 - 74; Kay, C. 2002. 'Why East Asia overtook !. atin America: Agrarian reform. industrialisation and development: ThirdWorld Quarterly Vo!(23 6. pp.
1073 - 1102; Sugihara, K. (2007)_'Labo,or Intensive ndust ialisat on in Global History: Australian Economic History Review Vol. 47(2).
To understand the impactof the 4IR requiresanappreciationof South Africa'scurrent standing.
Indeed, South Africa's grand challenges, poverty, inequality and unemployment,mediate all considerations of
the kind of future we ought toplanfor.Additionally,the 4IR also poses questionstoour current
conceptualisations of the path to dignified and meaningful work and life. For example, thereare choices to be
made about whether or not people ought to work, as the correlation between workand income will
become less pronounced over time. This then raises questions about what forms ofcreative effort or
production we may want to preserve for our people in the future. In other words, the 4IRis not only about
changes in production methodologies but also a new concept of human life and identity.
THE SOCIO- ECONOMY IN HISTORICAL CONTEXT
Undoubtedly,the4IRrepresentsanpportunityto
place South Africa ina leadership role, casting behind a
history of exploitation and exclusion To achieve this, we
must develop a deep understanding of our past, recognsing
that it is not a failure of human capabilities but rather a clash
in economic and social value systems that resulted in crossly
unequaloutcomes
Indeed, scholarly accounts of the nature, origins, and impact
ofindustrial changeinAfricaoftenbeginwiththe
emergence of British industrialisation in the latter part of
the18thcenturyandintothe19thcentury2.In
an attempt to explain more recent examples of rapid
rapidindustrialdevelopmentandsocio- economic
change, the focus has shifted from the European (and
mainlyBritish)casestotheEastAsian examples3.
Withinthiscontext,considerationsofthe economic
profileofvariouspartsofAfrica(andother regions
thatwerecolonised)areeclipsedsaveonlyto
highlight the extent of Europe's (or Asian Tigers') relative
economic andindustrial advancement during the same
timeperiod.Notonlythis,but thestoryof
industrialisationorthatofemergent
economicorganisationbeyondsolerelianceon
agriculturetendsalsotopivottowardsEuropean
interventioninAfricansocietyandeconomyrather
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
134  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

DIAGNOSTIC REPORT: SUMMARY & KEY FINDINGS JAN
than endogenousdevelopmentsdevelopments 4
In recent years, studies onthe Kingdom of Mapungubwe
(c.1075 -1220)haveshiftedawayfromthemainly
archaeological,geological,andenvironmentaltothe
construction ofa narrative aroundtheKingdom'ssocio-
culturallegacyin SouthernAfricaNotablyinSouth
Africa,thediscursive
(re)constructionof Mapunguwe 5 has come to serve a number
of politically and culturally justifiable ends central to which the
kingdom's technical capability in mineral extraction have been
highlighted as well as Africa's self -directed insertion into global
trade networks across the Indian (and Atlantic) Ocean world .8
Mapungubwe was a precolonial Southern -African state Located
at theregional confluence ofpresent-daySouthAfrica,
Botswana, Zimbabwe, and Mozamb °chue.Atitsheight the
kingdom had a population of 5000 people and was organised
around a class -based social order due, ìnpart, to political-
elites' access to and control over gold and ivory trade 7.
Although initially a trade good along the East coast of Africa,
over time gold assumed important symbolic value within
Mapungubwe society itself, replacing the centrality of cattle as
the principalmarkerof wealth and status8
Therefore, centralto the evaluationof history is an appreciatiorof
thedistinction between industrialisationandindustrial
capabilities What this section surfaces is the factthatscienceand
the attendant industrial capabilitieat produces were not limited
to 16th century Europe.Indeed,attheintersection of
modern -dayZimbabwe,BotswanaandSouthAfrica,
existedanadvancedcivilisation,Mapungubwe, which
contained within it industriabapabilitiesand international:rade
sophisticatiorin as early a time as the 12th century.
The below timeline contextualises Africa's industrialcapabilities
startingl000 BC:
4 Fine, B. and Rustomjee, Z. 1996. The Political Economy of South Africa: From Minerals and Energy Complex to Industrialisation. London: C. Hurst and Co.;Marks, S. and
Rathbone, R. Eds. (1982). Industrialisation and Social Change in South Africa: African classformation,culture, and consciousness, 1870 -1.930. London and New York: Longman.
5 Carruthers, J. (2006). 'Ma punguhwe: An Historical and Contemporary Analysis of a World Heritage Cultural Landscape' African Protected Area Conservation and Science Vol
49(1). pp. 1 -13; Chirikure, S. (2007). 'Minerals in Society: Iron Production and its Position in Iron -Age Communities of Southern Africa'. Journal of SocialArchaeology Vol 7(1).
pp. 72 -100; Pikirayi, I. (2011) The Past Within the Present: The Contemporary Uses of Mapungubwel In Sian Tiley -Nel. Ed. Mapungubwe Remembered: Contributions to
Mapungubwe by the University of Pretoria. Johannesburg: Chris Van Rensburg Publications.
6 Pwiti, Gilbert. 1991. Trade and Economies in Southern Africa: The Archaeological Evidence. Zarnhezia 18,2), pp.119 1.29; Reid. A. and Segobye, A. (2000). 'Politics. Society
and Trade on the Eastern Margins of the Kalahari' Cooc.:in Series: African Naissance - The Limpopo Valley 1000 Years Ago Vol 8. pp. 58 -68; Wood, M. (2000). 'Making
Connections: Relationships between InternationalTadeaw àclassBeadsfromtheShashe- LinipopoArea'. GoodwinSeries: AfricanNaissance- TheLimpopoValley1000Years
Ago Vol 8, pp. 78 -90.
Huffman. T. (2008) 'Mapungu Me and Great Zimbabwe: The Origin and Spread of Social Complexity in Southern Africa'. Journal of Anthropologicalrchaeniogy`, /oi(28) 1 pp.
37 -54.
8 Woodborne. S., Pienaar, M.. and 1 iley -Neo, S. (2009). 'Dating the Mapungubwe Hill Gold. Journal of African Archaeology Vol. (7) 1, pp. 99-105.
)00 BC -1st Century
ngdom of Kush, modern Sudan
:ientific/ Industrial Capabilities:
namids (maths, physics,
tronomy) ; International Trade &
>n artefacts production
13th -17th Century
Timbuktu, West Africa
Scientific/ Industrial Capabilities:
Science & Mathematics Scholarship;
International Trade
18th Century
Europe & North America
Scientific/ Industrial Capabilities
Steam & Water Power; Mechanical
production
20th Century
Europe & North America (gradual
diffusion to the rest of the world)
Scientific/ Industrial Capabilities:
Computing Power, Automated pro-
duction
12th Century16th -17th Century19th Century21st Century
Mapungubwe, Southern AfricaEuropeEurope & North America (gradualEurope& North America (gr.
Scientific/ Industrial Capabilities:Scientific/ Industrial Capabilitiesdiffusion to the rest of the world)diffusion to the rest of the w
Gold Mining & International Trade'grand synthesis' of modern scienceScientific/ Industrial Capabilities:Scientific/ Industrial Capabil
Electrical Power, Mass -productionInternet; Artificial Intelligenr
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   135

**
In Africa's development outlook in the 41R, we seek to understand the kind of balance thatmust be struck between
science and capital in order to produce economic competitiveness and societal wellbeing.
KEY FEATURES OF SOUTH AFRICA'S SOCIO- ECONOMY
01
02
04
07
08
09
10
South Africa is a relatively youthful country. Of the approximately 57 million SouthAfricans,
the median age is 26 years of age. Historically a relatively low median population agewould be
characterised as a demographic dividend with potential long-term benefits for the country's
productivity and economic growth.
In terms of the country's gender profile, women constitute just over half (51 %) the total
population.
The country continues to experience significant internal migration, with nearly two -thirdsof
all South Africans living in urban areas. This trend is set to continue into theforeseeable
future. The failure to plan for and adequately provide social and economic serviceslinked to
urbanisation poses a critical challenge for improving human wellbeing.
Although the income disparity between ethnicities has narrowed with the emergence of the
Black middle class, income disparities among Black South Africans have increasedrequiring
new policy and other structural instruments for addressing the widening gap.
Thus, despite improvements in South Africa's overall HDI since 1990, currently pegged at
0.699, disaggregating the overall HDI by its component indices (education, life expectancy,
and Gross National Income (GNI) per capita), illustrates a trajectory that has been volatilein
terms of life expectancy.
The Structure of SA's economy has changed dramatically over the past 2 decadeswith
historical anchor sectors such as mining and energy, reducing in terms of their aggregate
contribution to GDP as well as their average growth rate over time.
Regression in the Water and Energy sector is the single-biggest threat to South Africa-both in
respect of human development and economic growth.
Domestic workers are the largest employment group in South Africa. To this end, thelargest
employment sectors in South Africa are Private Households and Community Services.
Whilst the National Development Plan (NDP) envisages aggregate growth of 5.5 %,the highest
growing sector between 2010 and 2018 has been Finance at 2,6 %. This indicates that all
sectors are under -performing relative to the growth targets necessary to respond toSA's
development challenges.
In terms of the World Economic Forum Competitiveness Ranking, South Africa is67th, out of
140 countries, 5 places down from its 2017 place.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
136  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

SOCIETAL WELLBEING"
The United Nations ranks Southnca 113 oul of
189 countries in terms of Itsi lumen Development
Indes.
16.4% of employed South Africana are considered
the 'Walking poor'and 472% of the tabour torco Is
considered skilled
Wt. of the population rs dawned vuInerable to
multi-dimensional patrerty
54'tó of the population are internal users; 84.7% of
the population hat access to Improved water and
711% of the population has screw to improved
Sanitation.
The Fourth Industrial Revolution has the potential to catalyse
South Africa's path to attaining the goals of the National
Development Plan. Therefore, the task of contemplating
a 41R strategy and related institutional arrangements is
principally about contemplating solutions to South Africa's
development challenges. The quest at the heart of this
Commission is thus related to two key questions: South
Africa's economic competitiveness and the wellbeing of
her people.
qI
South Africa's global position on economic
competitiveness improved in 2019, with the
country going up 7 places to 60 out of 141
countries.
South Africa is placed at 46 of 141 countries in terms
of innovation capacity. This is a positive indication
of the country's ability to find novel responses to its
challenges and generate attendant economic
opportunity.
South Africa performs worst in terms of Skills and
Health. These indicators reflect the state of the
country's human capital, which is our biggest
constraint in terms of economic competitiveness.
The best indicators are Financial System and
Macro -Economic Stability.
other words, this project roots firmly within the existing
vision for South Africa as enshrined in the Constitution, that
is, a South Africa that is cognisant of its past, committed
to honouring the lives of those who have suffered as a
consequence of it and dedicated to engendering social,
economic and political belonging to all who live in it.
The central goa! of this Summary Report is to generate a
common understanding of the key features of the 41R and
their intersections with South Africa's current socio- economic
standing and corstraints. Given the requirement to achieve
economic competitiveness in the 41R, this report evaluates
the 41 R strategies of countries at the forefront of planning, to
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   137

o
0)o0004
provide an understanding of the global context. Each theme,
or workstream is then expanded upon to demonstrate the
intricacies of the unfolding present and future. Cutting across
all workstreams is the question of socio- economic impact,
which seeks to focus thinking on the future implications of the
choices that must be made in the present.
The key lessons emerging from the 41 R country review
are thus:
o
PCO
The 4IR is a new epoch in social and economic life.Itis driven by
technological advancements that will deepen the connections between
the biological, physical and digital worlds, therefore blurring or merging
capabilities amongst these domains.
Success in the 4IR will depend on our ability to unleash the full scientific,
industrial and creative capabilities of South African society. In other
words, the fundamentals of this revolution are consistent with the aims of
our developmentalstate: economic competitiveness and societal
wellbeing.
However, failure to respond to the nature of these technological changes
as well as their related infrastructural requirements, will pose a threat to
South African industries; the relative wellbeing of South African people
and their ability to participate in the world as equals.
Despite the fact that South Africa is the most industrialised country on
the African continent, it has not reaped the full benefits of previous
Industrial Revolutions owing to an interrupted history. This has had
adverse consequences for our people, banishing most to poverty and
socio- economic exclusion.
That we are capable is evidence b r our history, which includes the ancient
Kingdom of Mapungubwe, which was home to advanced scientific,
artistic and industrial capabilities.
The challenge of our time is therefore not simply about developing
human capabilities but the recognition of the competitive landscape and
ur comparative place amongst nations.
To this end, we have evaluated the 4IR strategies of various countries, all
of which are pursuing different investments in technological; industrial
and human capabilities, in a bid to secure their unique place in the global
economy.
Cutting across country strategies is the centrality of the state: a focus on
leveraging technology to address service deliver: challenges; placing
research, data management and science at the cross -cutting base of the
stateandpublic -privatepartnershipsfocusedonscientific
experimentation.
Whilst the South African state is currently fiscally constrained, it has a
unique opportunity to use its buying power to ignite the creation of
industries of the future. This will simultaneously respond to the delivery of
public goods whilst creating a clear, initial market for new industrialists,
representative of the broader transformation vision.
Government departments will have crucial roles to play in aligning
scientific and training efforts to clear industrial development prioritie .
This will require focus and a possible reduction in programmes.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
138  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

OA I NM ma
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   139

Asaresultofextensiveresearch,public
and governmentconsultationsheldbythe
variousCommissionworkstreams,aviewhas
emergedofour desired41Rfuture.
Further consultationswillbeheldto gaininputs
andbuild consensusfrommoresectionsof
society.The Commissionisawarethat thereis
aformof acceleration that,donewithoutfull
consideration ofinequality,canfurtherthegap.
lbveerfrom our historical development path, the
41R is an opportunity to more mindfully integrate the
majority, who typically live in geographies that lack the
appropriate infrastructure for participation.
Done correctly, we alsohave the opportunityto
collaborate more meaningfully across the continent to
ensure that we rise together. It is on this basis that the
continuous work around the 41R ought to consider the
historical contextinorder to drive a more holistic
development outcome.
The Commission has rallied together in producing a strategic focus for South Africa to effectively participate in the
41R. The proposed dream for the country in the 41R is:
South Africa will have a globally competitive, inclusive and shared economy with the technological
capability and production capacity that is driven by people harnessing the 41R to propel
the country forward towards its social and economic goals, instead of falling behind.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
140  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

i
jIc
uI,ç,
iiiiiIiiiiIIIIIiIitIIi.
S
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   141

I
N N
We arecurrentlyintheinitialphaseofthe
fourth industrialrevolution.Theworld
has witnessed three industrial revolutions over the
ast 250 years.
Before the three industrial. revolutions, Mapungubwe
(consisting of modern -day Zimbabwe, Botswana and
South Africa) contained withinit venousindustrial
capabilities.
Industrialrevolutionsusheritmajorsocio --
economicshifts.Thefirstindustrialrevolution
started in the late eighteenth century with the use
of steam to power different processes. Prior to this
revolution human and animai power was used for
production. Oneofthe majorinventions,which
symbolisesthisrevolution,is thesteamengine,
Steam power was aLso used for driving weaving
millsetc.ThisLedtoincreasedand localised
production in factories. Due to industrialisation, there
was aneffectonthesocialstructure.People
started moving from villagestothecities where
industries were located. We were slowly moving
away fromanagriculture -based societytoan
industry-basedsociety.Thefirstindustrial
revolutionemerged.inEngland,spreadingto
different parts of the wor d over the course of a
century.
Thesecondindustrialrevolutiontookplace
approximately a century after the first. A key driver of
th'srevolution was theinventionof electricity.
Duringthesecond industrialrevolution,steawi
power was replaced by electric power. Slowly,
electricity began toreplace steaminindustrial
production. Another major invention was that of
electric motors, which led to assembly Lines and
massproduction.Theinventionofelectricity
changed society in a significant way, most notably
increasing economic productivity.
Thethirdindustrialrevolutionstartedin
the secondhalfofthetwentiethcentury.
Igniting thisrevolutionwastheadvancement
inthe semiconductor industry. Transistors were
invented in 1947atthe Bell
UnitedStates of America(USA).
oftransistors madeitpossible
andtherefore storeinformation
Labsinthe
The invention
todigitise
easily.This
revolution,also calledthedigitalrevolution.
alsosawthe advent
leadingtothe automation
thusincreasing production
Anotherimportantinvention
industrial
ofcomputers
ofindustries,
andefficiency.
ofthethird
revolutionwas theInternet,which
resulted in worldwide virtual connection.
The History of
Industrial Revolutions
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
142  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

/J .J\
Mass Production,
Assembly Line,
Electrical Energy
Cyber Physical Systems,
Internet of Things,
Networks: Artificial Intelligence
Figure 2: Industrial revolutions timeline
-.fourthindustrialrevolution-
.»»..O «.. ..»«.»...Of» .
..., ,, »,, , »
_». »,,,,.,.«.._,. »»
.......» . »... ».............. a
» «s
..........» « »...
»,,,,__,,,
,..,..
...._........« «» .........»......
participantintheindustrial revolutions-»»».»»»
Of.ONNo
»,.S4h2@caution SouthAfrica'sambitionsof being an
_» ,ctive participantinthisrevolution (because we did
........ pptfully participateinthelastthreerevolutions;;
, hgvever, the reduction of global boundaries, as well
». revolution, means that access to
..».»...t12g.,g ä ."91thisrevolutionismorereadily
»» ........ ,...... ... . _ ..».... ....... »«,N,,,.._,,...dltâleand can more quickly be leveraged.
4».. ..0e..... O.60...» ».««2definition ofthe41Rthatensuresahuman- centric
approach .The 4thindustrialRevolutionisan era
.. »».» .N.whereeo le are usinsmart, connected and converged
fiber Ph sical and Biological systems and smart
TheCommissionhasadoptedanamended
NoD
USbusiness models to define and reshape the socal,
that for a country toprogress,it should be an activeeconomic and political spheres.
Mechanization,
Steam Power,
Weaving Loom
Automaton,
Computers
. Electronics
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   143

ilklti.31111411} MMAAIPms
i
mg
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
144  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

`
.1cr
DIAGNOSTIC REPORT: SUMMARY & KEY FINDINGS JAN
CASTING OUR EYE BEYOND SOUTH AFRICA
This project concerns itself with the question of
development as both an objective and relative
outcome. In other words, we understand that in
the context cf a globa[ised society, competition
and wellbeing are not only about our own
standards, but also relative to the quality of
economic and social life enjoyed in other nations.
To this end, in determining the socio- economic
impact of the 41R path that South Africa embarks
upon, we wítl also keep a firm eye on the
strategies that other countries are undertaking
to ascertain gaps and opportunities, both locally
and internationally,
The concept of 4IR is new. Therefore, only a
handful of countries have developed strategies
in response to this unfolding current revolution
inanticipation ofadifferentfuturereality.
The below image summarises the focus of
the country casestudiesthathavebeen
evaluatedby the commission.
This is not to imply that the below countries are
the only ones that have begun thinking about
the nature and implication of the 41R for their
societies. Asthetimelinediagrambelow
demonstrates, since 2017, many countries have
in fact prepared country concept documents
and /orstrategies,principallyaround
Artificial Intelligence(AI). Given the focus on
AI,thisreport highlightscountry cases that
are focused on other aspects ofthe41R,
mainly manufacturing (Germany and Malaysia)
and broad digitisation with a special focus on
government service delivery (Singapore).The
casesofIndiaandJapanhave been
includedtoemphasise4IRstrategiesthat
have asocial transformational thrustrather
than a purely industrial developmental one.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   145

0
c;
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
146  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

CountryStrategy NameCompetitive ThrustHuman CapitalIndustrialisationEnablers
(4.
Industrie 4.0 (14.0)
#AI4AL
Society 5.0 (The
5th Science and
Technology Basic
Plan)
I ndustry4W RD
Smart Nation
Industrial Strategy
UAE's Fourth
Industrial Strategy
Drive (decentralised)
digital manufacturing
Technology
leadership for
inclusive growth
Resolution of social
challenges through
41 R technologies
Digital
transformation of
manufacturing
Digitisation
of all areas of
life, especially
government service
delivery
Asserting global
business leadership
through Al
Becoming the
world's hub and lab
for 41R applications
Technology (within
broader High Tech
Strategy) to drive
prosperity and
maintain citizen's
quality of life
Technology -
led / -enabled
socio- economic
transformation
Improve wellbeing
of citizens through
deep integration of
technology into the
delivery of public
and private goods.
Manufacturing
efficiency,
productivity to
drive economic
growth
Digitally- enhanced
government
service delivery
Invest in re-
training the
workforce;
establish world -
leading technical
education centres;
attract best minds
in Al
Enhancing quality
of life through
e- government and
smart consumer
experience
Superior
and efficient
manufacturing
Social priorities
drive technological
advancement
Desired social
outcomes
determine
technology
priorities and
deployment
Economic and
industrial priorities
inform strategy
Service -delivery
priorities drive
technology
strategy
Transport;
housing & digital
infrastructure are
the focus areas
E- government;
Food & Water
Security;
Advanced defence
manufacturing &
smart cities.
Private /Public
partnerships in
experimental
research.
Regulation, in
particular financial
services and data
management.
Research
leadership- the
world's CERN for
Al
Regulation of the
trade of data and
incorporation of
such rules into
the World Trade
Organisation.
SMME
Development
Clear &
centralised
industrial policy
planning &
infrastructure
deployment
Private -public
sector deals;
investment in
venture capital for
new enterprises;
SMME
productivity &
growth
Become the
world's open lab
for autonomous
and sustainable
mobility to lead
the innovations in
transportation
United
Arab
Emirates
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   147

I
TA3
\we
..
0
zn
South Africa's Industrial Policy Action Plan3 views 41R or
digitisation as a component rather than a central feature
of the future of economic production and social life. The
key issues that the Industrial Plan seeks to address are
legacy in nature, rooted in the country's history of unequal
development, namely:
1.The concentration of economic ownership and control
within the racial minority.
2.The lagging industrial capabilities of the country with
respect to the third industrial revolution.
3.The increasingly blurred lines in economic sectors.
4.Poor policy coordination amongst state actors.
5.Aging economic infrastructure (electricity, roads, ports)
6.Corruption within the government sector which reduces
the impact of efforts aimed at SMMEs and other types
of new entrants through public procurement.
South Africa therefore articulates its strategy in terms of the
traditional industrial sectors, namely-
1.Automotives
2.Clothing and Textiles
3.Metal fabrication
4.Agro- processing
5.Forestry and Timber
6.Plastics
7.Chemicals
The current approach to Industrial Planning in South Africa
differs from 41 R strategies in 3 key ways:
1.Industry is not understood as a response to socio-
economic challenges or thepublic goods agenda.
Therefore, rather than incentivise for products and
services it consumes (e.g. the UK is invested in industrial
outcomes that advance public transportation through
41R technology), the South African strategy is biased
towards supportingindustriesthat haveminimal
interface with the state. In this sense, there is no direct
lever through which the State can support industrial
outcomes in supported sectors.
2.Science and Technology are not expressly articulated
as concerns of Industrial Development. In the future,
the requirement for aggregated data and advanced
technology will force the state to play a more central
role in enabling technological capabilities throughout
society and the economy.
3.The competitive direction of the South African state
is not clear from the Industrial Policy Plan. This leads
to investment in multiple arenas without clarity on a
finite list of priorities. In contrast, 41R strategies are
built on the principle of comparative advantage- using
technology to simultaneously resolve socio- economic
challenges and establish the nation as a global leader in
at least one key industry.
0
0
(C?
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
148  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

C
DIAGNOSTIC REPORT: SUMMARY & KEY FINDINGS
4IR strategies are typically based on and respond to service delivery
challenges as well a social and human development /wellbeing priorities.
Particularly with respect to the government, there is a strong emphasis
on e- government; using technology to improve mobility around cities
and to enhance the quality and deployment of health services.
The State is central to planning and coordination in the 4IR. A high -level
inter -departmental multi -stakeholder governance and coordination
structure is understood to be the institutional custodian of the 4IR
strategy. For many countries, this has meant integrating Higher
Education And Training with Science And Technology, making the
emergent department across -cuttingcentreofresearch,data
management and technological deployment.
A focus on Regulation, Ethics, and Cultural aspects of the Internet iskey,
not only to create an enabling policy environment to support private and
non -governmental organisations as well as the state but to ensure ethical
and transparent use of these new technologies.
Readiness is a recurring theme. To this end, governments are treatingthe
novelty of technologies as opportunities for funded experimentation
through private- public collaborations.
4IR strategies place emphasis on leveraging and harnessing capabilities
in the private sector to find scalable and profitable solutionsthat
simultaneously unlock social and economic value,
Most strategies, particularly those of emerging economies, make explicit
reference to human capital development, both as it pertains to future
labour fore entrants and the requirement to reskill these transitioning
into emerging jobs of the future.
Technolo_ical commitment is also important in the context of 4IP
strategies. This pertains specifically to the productive capabilities that
countries seek co establish expertise and control. Technological choke
also informs the human capital development approach.
Strategies also reflect a clear commitment to differentiation and the
establishment of a global comparative advantage. To this end, there isan
emphasis on particular areas of specialisation through which various
countries seek to emerge global as leaders.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   149

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
150  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

I
Biotechnology
Human Enhancement loch
HUMAN -ORIENTED
TECHNOLOGIES
2
Z
I!
I
Artificial Intelligence
Robotics
Advanced Materials
3D Printing
The Commission's focus across workstreams
responds to the three core concepts that
underpin the strategies that are being undertaken
by countries at the helm of 41 R planning:
technological choices and related implications
for commercialisation and mainstreaming,
2.Human Capacity Development as it
pertains to current and future
participants in the economy as well as
human beings in their capacity as citizens.
The 4S is about modes of production that
entail developing new technologies as well as
new business models. Amongst its numerous
implications, in the fourth industrial revo'.ution,
there will be a greater drive towards using
omputers for sense- making. This will require
the collection of vast amounts of data from
multiple sources, powered by constantly evolving
2020
whichconstitutesabroader
contemplation of the physical infrastructure
and institutional and regulatory arrangements
that are needed to protect and support new
modes of social and economic life.
This section unpacks the work undertaken in
diagnosing the general meaning of the above
themes in the 41R and South Africa's current
statusinrelation to what isrequired going
forward.
computationalmethods(algorithms)and
processing capacity.
Constantly evolving, these technologies have
both household and industrial applications and
are increasingly interfacing with and, in fact,
penetrating the human body, altering the physical
and philosophical boundaries between the human
and the non- human. The table below provides a
concise summary of the technological clusters.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   151

I"))
SimulationAugmented
Reality
Horizontal and
Vertical Integration
Comprehensive data
analysis & support for
decision -making
3D Printing
Decentralised
3D Facilities
Networking /
communication amongst
machines and products
Network security
systems between
machines, products
and systems
Large data storage
capacity
Ease of communication
between machines
and systems
Automated value chains
emerging from deep
integration across
machines, systems and
production units.
Virtual displays of
information for
production and
maintenance
Real -time decision
impact assessments
Virtual Networks
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
152  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

,-- =;.
ÇJ2C -2
.:20,
1r
Initial analysis of 4l R technologies demonstrates how 4l R technologies can be utilised to alleviate challenges experienced in
key sectors for South Africa. These include:
Through the deployment of digital technologies, energy
generation, storage, and transmission can become smarter,
more efficient, and more transparent. Digital technologies
and other 4l R technologies can enable:
Smarterenergysupplyplanninganddemand
management
Smart energy storage
The transition to virtually -controlled / managed power
plants
3D printing of energy infrastructure components
Thecombinationofbiotechnologywith
informatics enabled by precision data has the power
toimprove seedandplantresilienceparticularly
givenclimatevariability.Thiscanenhance food
security and, in the case ofbio- diversity management
andprotection,aidinthepreservation of existing
biodiversfty for future generations.
Experiments with smart and precision farming in South
Africa are already underway in the wine industry with
the use of drones for mapping and data -gathering
Automated,energy -efficientwater -monitoring
sensors that support precise water -use for irrigation
Historically at the heart of the South Africa's industrial
complex, in recent years, the GDP share of the extractive
industry has been declining as new areas of the economy,
notably in the services sector, advance. In addition, with
more than a century of mining, much of the country's
mineral wealth has already been expended and what
reserves remain lie too deep for safe, human -facilitated
extraction.
Automation and the Use of robots can be deployed for
deeper -level mineral extraction;
Digital rock -face mapping (through improved kinematic
analysis and advanced 3D virtual isonet analysis) can
assist with more precise determination of the mineral-
content of rocks and their relative stability- or lack
thereof - to justify precision drilling and extraction
Advancements in the form of smart water meters
can provide real -time, detailed water use to drive
responsible domestic and industrial water use
Smart water, sanitation, and hygiene solutions car also
become health and disease monitoring tools
Telemedicine can bridge the gap in health access by
connecting health practitioners with those in need of
care
Predictive health analytics, enabled by Big Data and
digitised health information systems, can assist with
mapping and predicting health servicesdemand,
empoweringbothorivateandpublichealthcare
providers to plan acco ~dingly
Developments in precision medicine will, over time,
improve the speed with which tailored treatment
reaches the relevant patients at the point most likely to
have optimal health impact
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   153

íOno: many/few examplesü gopd/*YUne*cc" eK:Y*o:cK
(C?
'Li
The Unlocking the Potential of the Fourth Industrial Revolution
in Africa (2019) report prepared under the auspices of
the African Development Bank (AfDB) has argued that
thereis already significant uptake of the Internet of
Things (IoT) on the African continent. At the launch of
the report in November 2019, the need for regionally-
orientedgovernmentalandindustrypolicies
andinvestment was highlighted. Thus, the report
emphasizes, competitivemarketsthatarescalable,
particularlyin telecommunications and digitisation.
The report is a comparative study that benchmarks the
economic, industrial, and technological profile of South
Africa, Nigeria, Cameroon, Morocco, and Uganda against
AI
BIG
DATABLOCK3D
ANALYTICS CHAINDRONES PRINTINGIOT
South Korea and ndia. It is arguably the only source of
information on 4IR technologies that have been adopted in
select sectors of the country economies under review. In
the case of the South African socio- economy, the evaluation
of the state of 41R technologies and their use has been
undertaken with specific reference to agriculture, energy,
manufacturing, and healthcare. It further identifies 4IR
technologieswiththepotentialforadoption/
deployment, as well as those with a low possibility of
uptake or application. The table below is an adaptation of
the AfDB report findings on 4IR technological diffusion
(andpotential)inselect sectors of the South African
economy that correspond with the AfDB's five priority
development and investment areas:
BIG
DATABLOCK3DAlANALYTICS CHAINDRONES PRINTINGIOT
PRIORITISING TECHNOLOGICAL INVESTMENTSFOR SOCIO- ECONOMIC
SECTORS IDENTIFIED
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
154  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

In essence, each of the colour codes above can be used to
inform discussion on which technologies to prioritise: that is,
which technologies should lie at the heart of the 41 R strategy
and howthe mixof4l Rtechnologiescan be altered /enhanced
over the medium- to long -term. It also gives a snapshot,
granted only for these economic sectors rather than for
the economy at large, of the technologies that are neither
being adopted nor have a high probability of adoption in the
foreseeable future. But there are further considerations to
be explored and around which choices will have to be made
regarding the pace and scope of 41 R technology adoption
as well as the human capital requirements accelerating the
diffusion of new and emerging technologies. Furthermore,
JAN 2020
theandto enable
the adoption of new technologies, particularly for SMMEs,
will also need to be deliberated.
An aspect of 41R technologies that tends to be ignored
relates to the manufacture and /or assembling of new
technologies. For example, while 3D printing facilitates the
on -site creation of components of (or whole) commodities,
3d printers themselves need to be manufactured or at least
some of their parts manufactured and assembled. As such,
determining which 41 R technologies to prioritise is as much
about the application as it is about the physical artefacts that
facilitates the technology.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   155

Production
total 6Am tonnes
Row
Vietnam 10%
3%
South Africa
3%
Mongolia
3%
Mexico
16%
DRIVING 4IR COMMERCIALISATION AND INDUSTRIALISATION
The task of this Commission, which is to propose a
4IRstrategyforthecountry,isessentially about
outliningandbuildingtheindustrialcapacityto
effectivelyincorporateemergingtechnologiesinto
existing (and unlocking new) productionprocesses
and valuechains. SouthAfricatherefore stands at
the cusp of a historical opportunity to leverage and
directtechnologyandunprecedentedproduction
capabilities for economic competitiveness. Not only this
butthesetechnologiescanassistinaddressing
perennialhumanandsocial.developmental
challengesintheareasofhealth,education,
human settlement,food security and nutrition.For
South Africa, then, the opportunity is one in which to
create economic value through a targeted industrial
development strategy and to harness technology and
scientific'nnovationtowardsthegoalofsocietal
wellbeing,
Currently, the government and broader society are
grappling with South Africa's readiness for the 41R and
indeed,what 'readiness'lookslikeatthemacro-.
industrial scale. It can reasonably be asserted that South
Africa's position in terms of 41R readiness is at a nascent
phase - albeit at the most advanced position within the
continent and arguably with the greatest possibility
to transition to a high -potential position,
Technologies of the 41R have been in existence for some
time,thusopportunitiesareonenabling
commercialisation, upgrading existingindustries and
creation of new industries are apparent.
Some of theworkthatneedstobedone
totake advantage of these opportunities include:
Closing the innovation chasm, where
homegrown innovationislost (not
commercialised orlost to other markets),
Combine and leverage 4IR technologies to
solve societal, economic and development
issues,
Upgrade existing sectors and industries while
creating new ones,
Drive economic growth and trade for GDP
growth and South Africa's prosperity.
Lookingattheinitialstagesofthe41Rvalue
chain,thereisonecomponentthatplaysa
criticalrole: Calcium Fluorite (CaF2) also known as
Fluorspar.itiskey componentinLithium -ion(Lí-
ion)batteries.Li -ionbatteriesarefoundin
electronics, mobile phones,Laptops,tablets, Electric
Cars,Robotsandothermachinery.SouthAfrica
has the largest reserves of thismineral.
SouthAfricahasacriticalroletoplayinthe
FourthIndustrial.Revolutionthatisbeyondjust
technology andthatroleiswithinprimarybasic
needsofthe4IRwhichisrawmaterialsin
battery manufacturing.
SMMEsalsohavetobepositioned for
commercialisationf41Rhomegrowninnovations
and building these to global scale and relevance.
Iran
1% usAY'
0
Kenya
2%
Mongolia
Spain8%
2%
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
156  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

`
DIAGNOSTIC REPORT: SUMMARY & KEY FINDINGS
HUMAN CAPACITY AND THE FUTURE OFWORK
The changes that new technologiesare beginning
and will likely continue to introduce in business and
industrial production practices will have a notable impact
on the South African labour market Currently, a key
challenge in South Africa relates to two key labour
marketcharacteristicsunemploymentand
underemploymentbothofwhichhavebeen
attributed, in part, to a seeming skills mismatch.
Especially evident among recent graduates,one of
thefactorsassociatedvrththecountry'syouth
unemployment crisis is the lack of skills and qualifications
that are relevant to the sectors of the economy in which
thereareemploymentopportunities4Thisis
compounded by the numbers of young people whoare
classifiedasneitherinemploymentnorin
education (NEETS)5These featuresof acritical
segment of the South African labour market not only
represents a failure to leverage the potential
Accelerated
Technology
Adoption
economic benefits of a youthful population.Principally,
it constrains the possibilities for and pace of migrating
to a high -skills economy such as adigital.or AI-
powered one. As noted by Business Unity South Africa
(BUSA)initspresentationtothe International
LabourOrganisation(ILO)6,business sustainability,
economiccompetitiveness,andprofitability
depend on the availability of a skilled and capable
workforce,
Human capacity is therefore an important feature of the
economy;akeyconsiderationinestablishingan
environment for private sector growth and investment.
Inconsidering the future of work and, specifically,
the typesofjobsthatwillbeavailable,the
World Economic Forum(WEF)7hasidentified the
following as some ofthecentral considerationsin
this changing landscape:
Changing
Geography
of Production
Net Positive
Outlook
Source: World Economic Forum (2018): The Future Of Jobs Report
4 Altman, Miriam . 2006. "Low Wage Work in South Africa." IZA/World Bank Conferenceon Employment & Development . Berlin.
Beukes, Rochelle, TinaFlansman, Simba Murozvi , and Derek `lu. 2016. "Underemployment in South Africa` ERSA Research Brief. EconomicResearchSouthern Africa, February.
5Rogan, Michael. 2019. "Introduction: The Post- School Education and Training Landscapein South Africa: 'Massification Amidst Inequality." In Post -School
Education and the Labour Market in South Africa, edited by Michael Rogan. Pretoria and CapeTown:HSRC Press.
6 Cohen, Tanya. 2019. "Business Unity South Africa (RUSA) Remarks at ILO and l' )EInternational Women's Day Event" A quantum Leap for Ge, ider
Equality: For a Better Future of Work for All. Geneva.
Reddy, Vijay, Haroun Bhorat, Marcus Powell, "Mariette Visser, and Fabian Arends. 2016. Skills Supply and Demand in South Africa. Labour Market
Intelligence Partnership , Pretoria: Department of Higher Education and Training
7 World Economic Forum. 2018. The Future of Jobs Report. Cologny /Geneva: Centre for the New Economy and Society
UbiquitousBy 2020 85% ofBusiness use ofIt is estimated that,high -speed mobilecompanies polledrobots willby 2020, 59% of
Internet, artificialwould expand theiraccelerate. Robotemployers surveyedintelligence,investment in bigadoption rateswere likely to changewidespread adoptiondata analytics, spenddiverge significantlyhow and where theyof big data analytics;more onacross sectors withproduce theirand cloudweb -enabled market23% - 3796 ofproducts. This would
technology wouldInvestment andcompanies planningbe guided by thedominate betweenmake extensive usethis investmentflexibility of local
2018 -2022of cloud computinglabour laws, industry
and machineagglomeration
learning.effects or proximity
to raw materials.
The disruptive effects of
new technologies and
business practices is likely
to accelerate.Thiswill
increasingly entail a
changing division of
labour between human
labour and machines
would increasingly
transform current job
profiles. Belatedly,
according to survey
respondents, the skills
required for the execution
of most jobs will also
undergo significant
changes with
higher-order cognitive
skills becoming ever more
critical
While 75 million jobs
may be disrupted,
133 million new roles
could emerge by
2022 although, as
noted above, these
would increasingy
shift away from
low -skills, repetitive,
and manual labour
occupations.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   157

In the current climate of slow economic growth and high unemploymentlevels, a social dialogue is critical and the
consideration of social protection mechanisms toensure a just transition for workers and employers must be
investigated.
Coordination within and between labour and business fora response to 4IR which prioritises growth and leverages
job creation potential is required. The Institutions of work requirea renewed engagement for a social contract and
the accompanying social protection systems in the context of4IR and the changing world of work. Entirely new
areas of Labour and tax laws need to be engaged in regulating, for example,the gig economy and work
done electronically across geographical borders.
While the net outlook for jobs is predicted to be positive,
the reality is that there will be an initial displacement of
jobs and a transition period in which government,
business and labour need to urgently prioritisere-
skilling the current Labour force for the future of work,
considerrelevantpolicyandsocialprotection
interventions and identify thelevers which could
provide opportunities to accelerate growth.
A South African strategy has to acknowledge thatmany
of our sectors are still operating in the 31Rspace. A
human capacity strategy needs to focuson the
future areas of work while strengthening current
sectors for maximum job retention, job creation and
a transition from the current to future -ready scenarios.
Investments must be made in current focus sectors
suchasadvancedmanufacturing,tourismand
agriculture,whileatthe same timeinvestingin
economic areas which are emerging sectors in 41R
economies such as the digital economy, the green or
circulareconomy,thesocialeconomy,thegig
economy and the creative economy.
To adequately and sustainably address the need fora
massification of skills and industry uptake of such i.e.
creating onramps for large groups of youth and the
unemployed to be skilled to participate in the economy,
relevantdigitalandfutureskillsneedtobe
identified and Al-driven technology platforms designed
to support skillspipelinedevelopmentwhichis
informed by industry.
oiXER
POPULATION
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
158  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

I N1
Access to relevant, quality, lifelong learning from
Early Childhood Development to old age
Empowering youth & women to participate in the economy
Technological development to meet 1st order needs
Social Protection for the changing world of work in SA
Provide quality health care for all
Technology harnessed for decent work and job creation
Promote social dialogue and collective representation of
workers and employers
Develop new laws and policies to adequately accommodate
the changing world of work
INVESTING IN DECENT & SUSTAINABLE WORK
Supporting and incentivizing entrepreneurship
Investing skills, infrastructure and resources for the emerging areas
of work in 4IR (green economy, social economy, & creative economy)
CREA ING AN ENABLING ENVIRO MEN
The 2008 global financial crisis has transformed the
interaction between banking, capital markets, politics
and economics.Globalregulationhas become
tighter and effort has been made in developing capital
markets that co -exist with a bank -based financial
system.Centralbanksaregenerallyplayinga
morepivotalroleinthefinancial.system.
Technologyis changing the face of finance globally.
Capital marketsmobilisecapitalforproductive
long-terminvestmentandarespecifically
importantin emerging economies, to fund future
growth and ensure the global competitiveness of the
economy. Firms with high growth potential and the
ability to scale receive funding fromstartup and
early -stage finance and these are of importance in 4IR.
In South Africa, startup and early -stage finance is a
large,butclosing,gapcomparedtoother
countries. Startups have access to capital through
an emerging Venture Capital (VC) and Private Equity
(PE) sector, and a growing angel investor network,
aswellasgrowinginterest frominternational
investors. In addition, South Africa faces challenges in
long -term finance,specificallyinthe infrastructure
sector.Withweakeconomicgrowth,itis
challengingfor publiccapitalto addressthe
infrastructure financing gap.
SouthAfricahasthestrongestfinancial
market developmentinAfrica .9AsSouth Africa
looksto mobilise capital for its 4IR strategy, it needs
toaddresspolicyandregulation challenges
relatingtopolicyuncertaintyandgovernance;
alignment of government efforts; exchange control
andintellectualpropertylawsthatattract
investment:taxinefficienciesand complexities;
and competition regulation.
8International Labour Office. 2019. Work for o Brighter Future - Global Commission on the Future of Work. Geneva: ILO. https: / /www.ilo.org /wcrosp5 /groups/
pub! is / - -- dgreports /--- cabinet /documents /publication /wcros_662410.pdf
gOfficial Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum OMFIF produced the Absa Africa Financial Market Index
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   159

Greater Surplus Value
Increased Exports
Equitable Participation
Supply Chain Benefits
In its capacity as a direct role player in the 41R, the state
is characterised byts identity as the largest and most
powerful purchaser in the country To this end, the state's
budget is predominantly spent on Education, Health, Social
and Economic Infrastructure as well as Policing Services.
This consumptive power is an opportunity for the state to
determine the forms of 41 R production it is willing to reward/
ncentivise through procurement. In so doing, the state
as procurer, can directly determine the emergence of 41R
industries that respond to its consumption appetite as well as
the national economic development objectives.
It is envisaged that through this lever, the state can trigger industries as conceptualised in the image beiow.
The country needs to develop a41Rinnovation
pipeline (from ideation to commercialisation) and this
requiresinnovativeandsustainablefunding
happeningthroughinnovativePublic- Private
Partnerships that respond to the country's current fiscal
position. We should seek to keep our innovators in this
country while allowing our innovations to cross borders
and allow capital flow into the country.
The ease of doing business needs to be improved
alongside establishing South Africa as the financial
centre for Africa to stimulate above -average economic
growth through innovation centres that attract top firms,
top talent and serious capital to the country.
The entrepreneurial ecosystem provides an innovation
pipelinefor funding opportunitiesandmandates,
Business Development Support access should be
widened: while developing skilled business support
across business type, stage and potential to scale.
SMMEs that are already, or have potential to build 41R-
aligned business models, products and services should
be aggressively supported, funded and scaled for
growth.
Moreearly -stageriskcapitalshouldbe made
available to small and growing businesses to narrow
thefunding gapandnew innovativefunding
models should be explored (e.g.: funding in stages
allowingfundersto invest in smaller amounts and
reduce risk and providing the entrepreneurs with an
opportunity to test the market).
A 41R- specific risk capital fund should be established as
a public- private -partnership. the fund should focus
on areas where current private- industry solutions are
not meeting demand such as early -stage and series B
and C funding stages,
Funding initiativesshouldbeevaluatedfor
theireffectivenessandscaling upofthose
programmes /funds thatareperformingwell
shouldbeactively explored to defragment the
funding ecosystem.
THE GOVERNMENT AS DIRECTOR OF TECHNO-INDUSTRIAL OUTCOMES
STATE PURCHASES
41R TECHNOLOGY
& BUSINESS MODEL CHANGES ß IMPACTS
Improved Quality
Increased Jobs
;170?7itrÌQ2
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
160  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

0 O0000
DIAGNOSTIC REPORT: SUMMARY & KEY FINDINGS
THE GOVERNMENT AS REGULATOR OF TECHNO -INDUSTRIAL
OUTCOMES AND SOCIO- ECONOMIC IMPACTS
The Process For Policy Development
Globally, efforts are under way to adopt policy and regulatory regimes to harness the 41R to achieve national and
international goals. The USA, the EU, China, and Russia, amongst many others, are accelerating policy and legislative reforms
to harness technological change to meet national objectives. In South Africa, the process is under way, and the PC4IR plays
a critical role: providing recommendations to guide the actions of both legislators and policy makers within government to
implement a coherent national response.
Within the Commission, debate and stakeholder consultations have led to an emerging set of principles that will guide the
development of policy and legal recommendations The 41R must be steered to create an inclusive, innovative and resilient
society. An integrated data policy is required - all initiatives by various departments must be reviewed and aligned.
Policy must be inclusive in its process: so that all members of society can participate in the policy
formation. This is imperative for inclusivity in the outcomes.
Integrated infrastructure framework: Duplication and fragmentation of infrastructure development
must be avoided.
Financial Incentives: Policies and laws must be drafted with South African entrepreneurs in mind.
For example, firms (both local and foreign) who invest inrural, underserved and marginalised
communities' small businesses, entrepreneurs, youth, women and people with disability should be
incentivised through policy instruments.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   161

SETAS
Adaptiveness: SA requires an agile, flexible approach to determining policy and regulation in a 4IR. The core of
any national response to the 4IR must be an increased capacity to be responsive to technological change - to
sense changes in the global and local technological environments, to interpret these changes in terms of their
relevance to economies, society, institutions, and policy. This intelligence must be systematically used to inform
a coherent and dynamic policy cycle. It is imperative to remain flexible, since by the time the policy cycle has
turned, it is likely that new technological dynamics will be at play. While contemporary policy must indeed seek
to leverage specific technologies such as artificial intelligence, additive manufacturing (3D printing), or the
industrial Internet of things, it must also develop the overall adaptive capabilities of systems to harness and steer
technological change towards meeting developmental agendas - for example by strengthening the capabilities
of universities and firms to interact and exchange information about future skills demand and supply, or by
developing intelligence about frontier technologies in order to inform future -oriented policy.
Social Economic Impact Assessment System ( SEIAS): SEIAS consultation is vital as is extensive stakeholder
consultation and review of existing policies and new policies or regulation being proposed. SEATS is mandated to
review policies and regulation. Cabinet decided on the need for a consistent assessment of the socio- economic
impact of policy initiatives, legislation and regulations in February 2007 and in 2015. This decision was ratified by
Parliament. Policies and Regulations that are internally signed by Ministers should be subjected to SEIAS. SEATS
aims to minimise unintended consequences from policy initiatives, regulations and legislation, including
unnecessary costs from implementation and compliance as well as from unanticipated outcomes, and to
anticipate implementation risks and encourage measures to mitigate them.
INFRASTRUCTURE
A distinction between Industry 4.0 and 4IRisessential
for framing this report. Industry 4.0 (i4.o) - is the digitisation
ofmanufacturingutilising newtechnologiesofloT,
robotics, cloud computing and data management, This is
the model thatGermany and manyothercountries
have used to frame their technological innovations.
There is also the concept of the Second Machine Age by Erik
Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee involving the automation
of cognitive tasks that make software- driven machines
perform human tasks so much better that they end
up being substitutes and taking the place of humans .9
In his hook, The Third wave - Steve Case presents a picture of
a world that is on the cusp cf what he calls the third "Internet
revolution". This wave was preceded by the ist wave to
get people online and the second wave to build solutions on
theinternet.Inthethirdwave, Case contends the
Internetisintegrated into our every day lifein every
aspect) o
The 4IR builds on the ongoing digital revolution as a result of
the growing access to and use of the Internet and digital
technology and enhances it with smart and autonomous
systems fueled by data and machine learning.11
Alta van der Merwe and Aurona Gerber describea
conceptual framework of 4IR: "These aspects include
technologies, technology fusion(in the middle because
theydrivechange),surroundedbythespecific
profession(ordomain),digitaldisruptionanddigital
transformation.'"
TheFourthIndustrialRevolution(41R)promises
substantial economic and social value for our country
and its people. Digitisationisseen as an opportunity
forlow- income developing countries to leapfrog into the
21st century given the required infrastructure, human
capital and a supportive regulatory environment.13
TheCommissionassessedDigitalinfrastructures,
asinfrastructurethat cancollect,store,and make
digital data available across a number of systems and
devices.Wealsoreviewed howtraditional
infrastructurewill be impacted by digital technologies
resultinginthenew modelsofdigitallyenabled
infrastructure.
According to the World Bank Group":
"In 2016, the global digital economy was worth some
$11.5 trillionequivalent to 15.5 percent of the world's overall
GDP.
9https: / /medium.com /of -all- things- tech -progress/ summary -of -the- second -machine -age- 28f5ad99c7bb
10 https: / /paulminors.com /blog /third- wave -Steve- case- book -summary -pdf/
1 https: / /www.foreignaffairs.com /articles/ 2015 -12 -12 /fourth -industria- revolution
12 https: / /www.itweb .co.za /content/6GxRKgY8p1JMb3Wj
13 https://www.brookings.edu/wp- content /uploads /2018 /01 /foresight 2018 _chap *c.r- 5_web_final tpdf
14 Draft World Bank Group report: Digita! economy for Africa dated June 2019, page 6
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
162  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

It is expected to reach 25 percent in less than a decade, quickly
outpacing the growth of the overall economy. However, countries
like South Africa are still currently only capturing a fraction of
this growth and need to strategically invest in the foundational
elements of their digital economy to keep pace."
The drive to connect people and businesses to the Internet
with digitalinfrastructureisurgent and imperative,if
South Africa is to prepare for 41R adequately. Sociologist
Robert Merton coined the term "Matthew Effect" in 1968
describingaphenomenonwhereearlyadvantage
increasesovertime.Today the advancing impact of
technologyisunquestionable and we see that early
adopters (innovators) have gained theleadandwill
continue to advance even further and further ahead of
the rest. We, therefore, cannot afford to allow the digital
divide to deteriorate further intoadigital chasm by
continuing to lag behind technological progress.
According to the new UN report, 'countries in Africa are
trailing'considerablybehind'developed marketsin
their share of the digital economy, a trajectory that is
likely to continue, fueling a growing global digital divide. "15
According toMcKinsey, African countries on average
spend about 1.1% of GDP on investmentin'going
digital' (including
2020
Internet infrastructure and networks), while developed
countries spend 3.2% of GDP.1E The latest International
Telecommunications Union (ITU) data reveal that some
52% or 3.7 billion of the world's population currently remain
unconnected (ITU, 2018). The ITU also estimates that
connecting the next 1.5 billion people will cost USD 450
billion.17
This section proposes actions that need to be taken to be
part of the 41 R race starting in the context of infrastructure
development.
Infrastructureisindeedthecornerstoneof modern
society consisting of a grid -like network of roads and
rail,watersupply,electricalgrids,thebuilt
environment and digital networks. In the past, we talked
of analogue infrastructure buttodaywespeakof
digitalinfrastructure.Futureinfrastructureis
software- based,data- enabledandhascloudaccess.
Digitalinfrastructureissettoimproveaccess to
informationandthereby promotetransparency of
government processes and activities and in turn, build
interconnected empowered communities.
Key infrastructure components andrelated
resources covered in this report include:
Fibre:
Broadband
nationally and
internationally,
on land in the
seasData Centres:
Hyperscale
and Edge Data
Centres
15 https://unctad.org/en/PublicationsLibrary/der2019_en.pdf
16 https://vnvw.mckicsey.com/- /media /mckinsey/ industries / high %20tech / our %20insights / lions% 20go %20digital %20the %20internets %20
transformative %20potential %20ín %20africa /mgi_ lions _go_digital_full_report_nov2013 ashx
17 https:// www. itu.int /dms_pub /itu- s /opb /pcJS- POL- BROADBAND.19- 2018- PDF -E.pdf
Computing
and storage
facilities: with
specific
emphasis on
the needs of
the state
Institutional
and
operational
capacity.
Wireless
infrastructure
with emphasis
on 5G
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   163

iiiiiiiinli
ea [,1;:,
The figure below provides a high -level view of the relevant
ICT infrastructure and resources. Furthermore, the relevant
Key
Economic
Sectors
International
Connectvrty
National
Connectivity
& Data Centres
Last Mlle
Broadband
Connectivity
(Mobile & Fixed)
{
{
It will be crucial that we build institutional and operational
capacity to participatein the full scope of global 41R
innovation througharestructuringof currentstate
resources (physical and institutional) and investing in new
resources, with optimal participation of local, international,
public and private partnerships.
Findings thus far hlgh ightthe importance of global integration
and best practice as a lens through which we look to design
and implement the roll -out of the 41 R infrastructure.
A second issue identified by the Commission is the need
to innovate, as we cannot continue implementing past
approaches into the future. We need a fundamental mind
shift. There isa new industrial organisation developing
asdigitalplatformsreconfigure newvalue -creating
ecosystems.Connectivityismoving from human -to-
humanconnectivitytohuman -machine -machine
interconnection. We cannotapproachtodayinthe
same way we have always done.
A World Bank Group draft report1s states: "The Digital
Moonshot target of 100% of population covered by mobile
broadband networks is almost reached." However, it goes on
to state19 that "..rural areas are being left behind. As extending
mobile broadband coverage is becoming a less important issue,
41Rtechnologiestooptimallymanageinfrastructure
supporting the key economic sectors are reflected.
the divide is explained more by affordability and characterised
by quality of access."
It then expands on the"But since 2010,
the regulatory, policy and business environment has been less
conducive to private investment. Regarding digital infrastructure
specifically, notable constraints to private investment in digital
infrastructure include delays in allocating high demand spectrum
and policy uncertainty around the Wireless Open Access Network
(WOAN). Moreover, based on the findings, in specific areas such
as broadband roll -out or government service digitalisation, the
government appears to rely excessively on its resources and
capacities,attimesleadingtoinefficient, expensive and
incomplete project implementation. Overall, there is room to
consider leveraging more private investment and expertise in
key areas such as infrastructure deployment, skills development
and the roll -out of e- government platforms. This is especially
pertinent in the context of the South African Government's
commitment to fiscal consolidation."
Hence going forward issues requiring change include (but
may not be limited to):
I.Radical innovation to deliver the required speed in
enactinglegislationwhichenablesextractionof
maximum economic andsocietalvalue from our
18 Draft World Bank Group report: Digital economy for Africa dated June 2019, page 13
19 Draft World Bank Group report: Digital economy for Africa dated June 2019, page 14
20 Draft World Bank Group report: Digital economy for Africa dated June 2019, page 19
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
164  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

DIAGNOSTIC REPORT: SUMMARY & KEY FINDINGS JAN 2020
resourcessuchasspectrumandestablished
infrastructure, e.g. established wayleaves, roads, etc.
II.A restructuring of resources to eliminate the duplication of
infrastructure and resources, e.g. the networks in state -
owned enterprises (SOEs) such as Broadband Infraco,
Sentech, etc., and
II!. A restructuring of ICT governance bodies to better
align with the trends in technology which e.g. reduces
differences between broadcasting and Internet services.
Broadband internet and data are foundational to the
digital. economy. Four areas of Fibre deployment need
to be considered: In- building Fibre, Capillary (Metro)
ibreaccess,Inter -cityFibre,and Oceanfibre
(Submarine cables).
Data Protection is paramount in the 41R era and it
usually sits in Hyper -Scale Data Centres. South Africa
shouldlook toattract submarine cablestoits
coastlines" thus attracting HSDC for computing power
South Africa should not delay the 5G process because
the country isplaying catch -up in 4G. South Africa
must implement the 5G licensing process through a
5G Express Policy.
The Centre for High -Performance Computing(CI 1PC)
infrastructure serves as a foundation upon which to
build a government on- premise super cloud unit with a
national grid of High-Performance Computing capacity.
Alongside this,South Africa needs to strengthen
its cybersecurity policies and capabilities.
As South Africa plans for how we manage the growth of
the digital economy, we need to think about how we
generate and consume electricity. Exploring power
consumption in the digital economy and 41R and looking
at how South African can find innovative ways to serve
the ,-rowing electricity demand, is necessary.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   165

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
166  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

JJ
AA
THE STATE IS REQUIRED TO BEFISCALLY CREATIVE
The majority of 41 R technologies are still nascent.
This means that our current task is not necessarily
to deploy them but rather to participatein
their development.Thisalsoallowsthe
country to prepare itself for the deepening
The country's fiscal position is currently weak,
with the future growth outlook projected well
below the N D P target of b %. This limits the state's
capacity to directly invest in and take ownership
of the industries it may choose to support. This
effects of the 41 R.This pertainsspecifically
tothedevelopmentofhumancapital;
infrastructure,technologiesandthe
entrepreneurialcapacitytolocalise41R
industries.
however,isa creative challenge - requiring
the state to rethink its leverage and build in
long -term negotiating options.
South Africa finds itself at a decision -moment.The first phase of theCommission's work concerned itself with thecurrent and historical position.Going forward, the work of the Commissionshould be integrated into existingand future institutions to achieve sustainedchange.
It is important to keep in mind the followingkey features of the path fcrward:
44R TECHNOLOGY IS NASCENT
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   167

MAKING CHOICES: DEVELOPMENT
DILEMMAS AND SA'S 4IR FUTURE
A centrai constraint in the future we are contemplating is
Climate Change.
Globalcallsforgreaterenvironmental- sustainability
have placed climatemitigationat the centre of this
century's economic and industrial development regime.
The Sustainable Development Goals have heightened the
urgency of industrial transitions that are climate- sensitive,
placinghuman andenvironmentalwellbeingatthe
heartofglobaldevelopmentactivities.Withinthis
context, South Africa's climate performance is worrying:
Coal remains the country's leading source of energy,
accounting for 85% of the electricity production in
2016 (DPME, 2019). It is therefore not surprising that
the country's carbon dioxide emissions remain above
recommended thresholds.
Furthermore, the country's Green -House Gas (GHG)
emissions have been on an upward trajectory
The costs of air pollution on human health and economic
growth in South Africa have yet to be determined. That
said, fine particulate matter (PM) is one of the most
lethal pollutants, higher concentrations of which are
known to increase human and animal mo.-ta;ity. not to
mention adverse effects on the biosphere.
Areas with increased industrial growth such as Richard's
Bay in Kwazulu -Natal and the platinum belt stretching
between the North West, across Limpopo, and into parts
of north -west Mpumalanga are at particular emergent
risk of poor air quality.
Government priorities in terms of improving air quality,
have prioritised the following actiors:
Continued implementation of the Air Quality Act
and its National Framework
Managing listed emissions activities
Launching a Health Study in the Highveld Priority
Area
Undertaking Cost -Benefit Analyses in air quality
management
»
As we consider the future of South Africa, the work is
analysis of the choices that confront the country.
Itis essential to embrace the language of choice asit
also references a crucial difference in the way in which
we willparticipateinthe future,asfreeandfully
informed protagonists in our future.
Indeed, there are dilemmas to be resolved: who ought to
be prioritised; what sacrifices shouldbe made; what
innovations are needed to leapfrog beyond our current
constraints; who leads and who follows? These are not
simple dilemmas. They are compounded by the urgency
imposed upon us by our grand challenges.
This report has emphasised a choice framework, recognising
that there are dilemmas to be resolved regarding who ought
to be prioritised; what sacrifices should be made and by
which segments of society; what innovations are needed to
leapfrog beyond our current constraints and with what social
and economic consequences; who leads and who follows?
The urgency to resolve our grand challenges against the
backdrop of the uncertainties and unknown risks of new and
emerging technologies compounds the above dilemmas.
The Commission seeks to emphasise the requirement for
difficult decisions to be made as this will ensure realism
in our planning and execution. Rather than frame the 41R
as a wholesale government delivery programme, it ought
to be positioned as a set of initiatives led and regulated by
the state to unlock the potential and power of citizens.
This, therefore, means that thinking through the lens
cffoundationalprinciplesismoreinstructivefor
understanding what is required. An example cf thisisin
theeducationsystem. Rather than dep oy a suite of
technologicai artefacts to schools, the Commission sees
greater potential in insisting on a curriculum that teaches
computational thinking, as this cognitiveskillbetter
prepareslearnerstodevelop masteryover
technology.
Itmattersthat we embed technology research and
developmentcapabilitieswithinthestateand
institutionsoflearning. Similarly,inprioritisingstate
implementation,theuseof technologytoenhance
service delivery should rank above other aims. Difficult
choices must be made, however with fnite choices
come clarity, for all sections of society.
CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION
& ADAPTATION MUST BE
INTEGRATED INTO ALL PLANNING
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
168  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

03
Light Up and Power Africa (Energy);
Nourish Africa (Agriculture);
Industrialise Africa (Industry and Services)
Wellbeing for Africa (Health, Education, Smart Cities and Governments)
Therecently -releasedEconomic Transformation,Inclusive
Growth, and Competitiveness: Towards an Economic Strategy
for South Africa ( ETIGC) by National Treasury highlights what
is required to improve South Africa's socio- economy. It is, in
effect, the blueprint for the South African government over the
next few years to resuscitate ailing segments of the economy,
including industrial sectors (i.e. energy) and open new areas of
economic activitythrough the development of Small, Micro and
Medium Enterprises. The document notes the unsustainability
oftheprevailingsituationgiventheombinationof
loweconomicgrowthandrisingunemployment.
The ETIGC has optedforascenarios approach along
with a time series.
Labour- Intensive
Investment in
Tourism, Agriculture,
Telecomms
2020
Rather than mapping three or four alternative or competing
futures, Treasury has identified short -,medium -,and long -term
actions to set the country on a human -centred, high -growth
and globally- competitive path. Seeing the Baseline scenario
as the impetus for government action and intervention, what
have been identified by the Commissioners' expert session
as three alternatives can logically be plotted as sequential
steps towards the ultimate goal of a regionally- connected and
a responsive economy that harnesses innovative solutions
and technologies to supply to the rest of the continent. This
time- series(ed)approachhingesonsequentialand
incremental change, with monitoring and feedback loops to
consolidate learning through pilot implementation.
Regulatory Reform and
Rationalisation
(including bilateral
agreements, industrial
policy, and removing
barriers to entry)
Modernised network
industries and
harnesing Regional
Growth
Opportunities
(electricity,
telecomms,
transport, and water)
Agriculture, Regional
Trade and Bilateral
Agreements
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   169

Indeed, there has been a recognition that much of
the post- apartheid growth trajectory, although not
necessarily one that has centred around technological
advancement as a lever for the economy, has nonetheless
been characterised by joblessness.
Thus, among the challenges that the ETIGC and the DTI's
Industrial Policy Action Plan (IPAP) have identified, foremost
'arelackofpolicycoherenceandprogramme
alignment; the concentration of ownership and control;
high private sector input costs (electricity, water supply
and availability, transport andlogistics)andaskills
deficit /mismatch as the main constraining features to the
country's industrial development."
The five broad thematic priorities and reform programmes of the ETIGC have been identified as follows:
49
Modernising
network
industries
(electricity,
telecommunicati
ons, transport,
water);Lowering barriers
to entry and
addressing
distorted
patterns of
ownership
through
increased
competition and
small business
growth;
o-39
Prioritising
labour- intensive
investment and
growth in sectors
such as
agriculture and
services,
including
tourism;
Implementing
focused and
flexible industrial
and trade policy,
which includes
rationalising the
Industrial Policy
Action Plan; and
Promoting
export
competitiveness
and harnessing
regional growth
opportunities
(with an
emphasis on
transport,
energy, and
construction).
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
170  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

400
2. Industrial Financing
3. Developmental (and flexible) trade policy
4. Science and Technology Innovation (STI),
especially:
Thus, while we may take our cue from the ETIGC and the
IPAP in terms of the industrial and economic future that
the government envisages, our task is to elaborate the
technological and linked human developmental, institutional,
and regulatory programmes that will realise this vision.
Investment in
people's
capabilities,
which includes
educational,
nutritional, and
overall health
improvements;
Investment in
the institutions
of work with a
view to
engendering an
ethic of
technology for
decent work;
Investment in
decent and
sustainable work.
Complementarily, the DTI's I PAP had identified programmes
within its sphere of influence, that can spur economic growth
through industrialisation. Chief among these are:
1.1SA government (Treasury) should create a data
repository on government procurement spending
to allow evidence -based government -led product
selection.
1.2Align and enforce local content procurement
processes at all levels of government.
1.3Capacitate the South African Bureau of Standards
(SABS) to conduct local content verifications.
4.1investtment and knowledge generation
4.2Technology absorption and diffusion
4.3Harmon'sation of innovation support initiatives
4.4Establishment of a Sovereign Innovation Fund (SIF)
that can administer Technology Development Grants
(TDGs) (Rlbillion has already been committed by
treasury 2019/2020 to support SM M E innovation)
4.5TechnologyLocalisationthroughFirm -level
Technology Assistance Packages (FTA Ps) and Sector -
Wide Technology Assistance Package (SWTAP)
4.6Experiential Training Programmes
The ETIGC and the IPAP are the government's key
economic policy and industrial policy instruments which
furnish a foundation their limitations notwithstanding) for
the development of a coherent 41R strategy with the best
chance of implementation. by the state, the private sector,
and society at large. We must bear in mind and take seriously
the President's emphasis that the country's 41R strategy
must be people -centred, harnessing the talents of all South
Africans, especially women and the youth. According to the
11.0's Future of Work report (2019), a people -centred future
enabled by the development and deployment of new and
emerging technologies prioritises:
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   171

In keeping with the ethos of the South African Constitution,
the 41R must become acitizens' initiative, rootedin
communicationamongstsectorsofsociety,to
ensureawareness,inclusiveparticipationand
collaborativeconstruction of the desired path forward.
Thereisalsoa need for youth participationinthis
revolutionand the mandate of the NYDA should be
expanded to drive this.
Morebroadly, the Commission'srecommendations
alignwiththe funaamentalideasemerging outof
critical international and local research efforts.
These include but are not limited to the International Labour
Organisation's 'Work For a Brighter Future; NEDLAC's
'Futures of Work'; the government gazetted 'Policy On High
Demand Spectrum and Policy Direction on The Licensing Of
a Wireless Open Access Network' as well as the Department
of Trade and Industry's work commissioned to Trade and
Industrial Policy Strategies (TIPS) dealing with the country's
industrial readiness for the 41 R. The recommendations also
have to be executed with consideration for environmental
sustainability, climate change and the circular economy.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
172  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

DIAGNOSTIC REPORT: SUMMARY & KEY FINDINGS
South Africa's greatest opportunity and greatest resource is herpeople. The 4th IR
gives us a rallying point of urgency and an opportunity toredesign, streamline and
align the education system through a coordinated, robust,multi -stakeholder
process. The purpose of the next version of ourskills ecosystem will be to leapfrog
our youth into productive work and reskill currentworkers for job retention and
ongoing productive work in the economy. The skills demands of the4IR era require
stackable competencies which are micro -credentialled, industryaligned and allow
people to enter and exit the system at multiple points as part of alifelong learning
process. The redesign of the ecosystem shouldbe facilitated at the Human
Resources Development Council as a priority project for 2020 i.e.have a timeframe
associated to the deliverable, assisted by the 4IR Commission anddriven by the
Digital & Future Skills Forum. Linked to this, there is a need toinvest in strategic
projects for mass skills development which can be scaled forexponential skills
pipeline development and labour market absorption.Themanufacturing,
agricultural and tourism sectors and the creative industries provideimmediate
opportunities for such programmes. In sum, all sections of societyneed to be
prepared to not only reskill but to approach skilling is a continuous process.Refining
problem- solving skills, deepening computational abilities, thinkingsystematically
and most importantly, mastering the social world are critical tosucceeding in
the 4IR.
Artificial intelligence (involving the theory and development of computersystems
to perform tasks usually requiring human intelligence),is a bedrock technology in
the 4IR, underpinning the growing connections in cyber -physicaland biological
systems. Research and Development, as well asimplementation capabilities in Al
are thus critical and must be embeddedwithin the state. This will enable the
generation of new knowledge and creative technology applicationsin sectors such
as health, agriculture, education, energy,manufacturing, tourism & ICT, amongst
others. The institute's mandate should also include training, tobe delivered across
various sections of society, as well as ensuring positive social impact.
The revival of South Africa's manufacturing sector is a core concernof the Industrial
Policy Action Plan given the centrality of the sector to jobcreation and global
competitiveness. To be successful in the context of the 4IR, it is imperativethat the
manufacturing sector be supported by a state -led researchinitiative focused on
advanced manufacturing and new materials. This shouldincorporate the Science
and Technology Department's existing AdvancedManufacturing Technology
Strategy, with a view to provide tangible support to its aims. This structurewill guide
South Africa in growing the manufacturing sector, develop andapply new materials
through the technologies of the 4IR in areas such as agriculture,construction,
housing, health, energy storage, environmental sustainability andelectric vehicles,
to name a few.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   173

C
The principal opportunity in the 4IR is the storage of large sums of data. Reliable,
accurate, standardised, integrated and easily accessible citizen data is critical for
building e- government services across sectors such as health, transport and justice.
However, this opportunity must be safeguarded by securely organising public data
through the bolstering of cybersecurity capacity and capabilities.It must be
recognised that data also presents an opportunity for productive exchange, through
which the state can make available anonymised open datasets to collaborate with
different stakeholders in society to solve service delivery challenges and enable
innovation. Standardising data is crucial for effective processing. The state's existing
cybersecurity company, Comsec, is thus to be strengthened to execute its mandate
in a manner that is relevant for the requirements of the 4IR. The appointment of a
Chief Data Officer within the state should also be explored.
For the industries of the future to emerge, new forms of incentives are required,
incorporating subsidies and tax breaks, to support the acquisition and application of
advanced technologies in the manufacturing of goods and delivery of services. The
DTI acknowledges the country's position as a laggard in digital or smart industries
and will require support to develop SMMEs into globally competitive industrial
players, as well as enable existing 4IR enabled SMMEs to experience an enabling
environment for growth. Itis envisaged that the emerging SMMEs, working in
technology fields such as blockchain, 3D printing, Internet of Things and operating
competitive platform businesses will develop solutions that address South Africa's
development challenges. It is therefore critical that the ease of doing business is
improved, including such tasks as registering a patent, reducing the cost of 41R
businesses (customs, taxes) and enabling ease of global competitiveness and
expansion. The state, as the largest and most powerful purchaser in the country, has
a significant role to play in the adoption of 41R technologies across priority sectors.
In line with this, the state also needs to ensure that appropriate regulation (and
taxation) of foreign platform and other businesses is achieved.
Itis important to incorporate 4IR infrastructure into the overall planning for
infrastructure development and deployment. Biotechnology, 3D printing and the
digital economy all require an infrastructure base. However, 4IR infrastructure does
not stand alone.It ought to integrate with existing economic and social
infrastructure. Just as a road is required to access a cell phone tower, cell phone
signal is required to call emergency services. Therefore, the generation and delivery
of energy; the extension and improvement of water infrastructure; health and
educationalinfrastructure are requiredfora coherent and comprehensive
infrastructure network. Building and accelerating 41R infrastructure rolloutis
imperative and should covermobile,physical,computational anddigital
infrastructure,
rg
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
174  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

DIAGNOSTIC REPORT: SUMMARY & KEY FINDINGS
To achieve the above changes, the regulatory environment must be adapted to
enable the desired progress. The generation of intellectual property rights stands
out in this context as the principle of a creative economy implies the rapid
production of new technologies, artefacts and processes for commercialisation and
scale. This exercise requires the legislature and the state executives to be trained to
become 4IR and science literate in order to implement changes that are holistic,
integrating the specific logics of technologies, the industries they impact, the
people who will both consume and produce them and the policy and legislative
agility required to compete on a global stage. Platform businesses also require a
regulation and taxation regime that fosters fair competition. Acts such as the Space
Affairs Act of No. 84 of 1993; South African National Space Agency Act, No 38 of 2008;
Sentech Act No 63 of 1996; Disaster Management Act of 2002 and the South African
Weather Service Act No 8 of 2001 are but some of the pieces of legislation that must
be reviewed for possible amendment, with a consideration for the co- ownership of
closed data,
Itis envisaged that the Coordination Council will interface with government
departments that will be responsible for the implementation coordination, resource
unlocking, accountability and policy coherence of 4IR programmes. Importantly,
the council will coordinate initiatives across the public and private sectors, labour,
academia and SMMEs to ensure synergy and drive efficiency through minimising
duplication and enabling collaboration. There is also a requirement to ensure that
existing institutions of state are revived and reenergised, where needed, to deliver
on the 4IR strategy. This will require a combination of training efforts to ensure 4IR
understanding and skills, and the possible consolidation of teams and budgets to
reduce duplication and optimise delivery. This is a critical step to ensure that work
on the 4IR can be successfully monitored and evaluated.
bgd
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   175

In analysing global best practice, a framework emerged comprised of 8 pillars of 41 R strategy, which include amongst others, a
focus on service delivery and establishing the country as a global leader in a targeted area. The commission recommends that
all entities charged with programmatic implementation refer to this framework, articulated in detail in this paper.
A key consideration for the Commission is urgency and accountability. The 41R is not in the future, itis the
present. It is therefore imperative that the country reorganises itself to ensure that citizens are positioned to benefit
from the opportunitiesitpresents.Toachievethis,theremustbeclearaccountabilityfor
implementingthe recommendations within a timeframe that can be monitored by all stakeholders in society. To
this end, a proposed implementation roadmap is proposed.
In all, the Commission's analysis has led to the conclusion that the 41 R is an opportunity for South Africa to integrate
itself into the broader African market as envisaged in the long -term economic recovery plan. We recognise this
moment as containing within it, the potential to use technology to address the most challenging development
problems faced by South Africa and the rest of the continent. By supporting SMMEs to develop technology that will
optimise the delivery of services in sectors such as health, education and transport, we can simultaneously enhance
the wellbeing of our citizens and become globally competitive.
Socio- economic integration, specifically within the African continent,is thus the 41R implication of South
Africa's currentdevelopmenttrajectory.Bydoingthis,we cancatalysedramaticsocio- economic
improvementsin South Africa, a tde that must be intentionally directed to lift our compatriots across the
continent of Africa. That means not only resolving the triple challenge through technology but using technology as
an instrument through which to achieve a much bolder development visionin which South Africaisnot
emerging but rather accomplished, amongst nations. The 41R is an opportu° ity to achi ve South Africa's Vision
2030 and beyond.
ß°:` i1,,'.a'
w-a- 40;,,c 7'-,-.Ca°%-\we.li`cé ..it.b
r..-.
`, :.i vT . `-
..,..,.i q°;yl
t,l.
,,,, .Qr4
,< <r. .-,a.°?`,.-...y=";",r '¿:e"`e,r'.C ? ;
r°1'
t,1tr,rR`"f, f'td`,_irv.t.t,.."
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
176  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

__o
0-*
I::
Develop Detailed
Implementation
Strategies With Respect
To The Following:
Secure Citizens' Data
Period To Review
And Adopt
Recommendations
Establish 4IR Strategy
Implementation
Coordination
Council
Develop Detailed
Implementation
Strategies With Respect
To The Following:
Invest In Human
Capital
Develop Detailed
Imolement:atior
Strated:es With pespe t
To The Following
IncetwiseF-uture
Intiurtrae5
T-12
MONTHS
Develop Detailed
Implementation
Strategies With Respect
To The Following:
Build Infrastructure
Update Regulation
(Ongoing Changes
To Be Agreed After
First Major Update)
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   177

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
178  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

The Presidential Commission's terms of reference are29
Develop an integrated country strategy and plan to
respond to 41R including detailed interventions to be
carried out achieving global competitiveness of the
key economic sectors (agriculture, finance, mining,
manufacturing, ICT, and ST1);
Advise on a technology research and development
program to advance 41R;
Advise on strategies for skills development and future
of work;
Makerecommendationonenablingrelevant
infrastructure for SA toparticipateinthedigital
economy;
Make recommendations on an institutional framework
and mechanism to coordinate 41 R programs;
Make recommendations on approaches to address
inclusivity and digital dvide;
Make recommendations on interventions to enable
innovation and entrepreneurship, and for SMMEs to
take advantage of the 41 R;
Advise on strategies to mobilise esources to support
the 41 R interventions; and
Make recommendations on mechanisms to measure the
impact of interventions on 41R.
The Commission's method of work is:
The Commission must endeavour to align their activities
to ensure alignment with the NDP.
The Commission may establish its own Working Groups
as it deems necessary and exercise discretion to invite
experts and other stakeholders to participate inits
meetings.
TheCommissionshouldreviewand make
recommendations on its terms of reference on a regular
basis.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   179

0`A
COMMiSS
+s
QQ. D.¡,
1\.1`5L,
©Cuid,v1
A
4\
L CZr
s%
t, .,4
\N",-
,FF,XARM',
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
180  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   181
THE PRESIDENCY
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
DIAGNOSTIC REPORT OF THE 
PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSION ON THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION
MARCH 2020
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
182  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  i
TABLE OF CONTENT
GLOSSARY    .........................................................................................................................v
FOREWORD     ........................................................................................................................ xi
PREFACE BY CHAIRPERSON OF THE PC4IR ............................................................................................... xii
REMARKS BY MINSTER  ...................................................................................................................... xiii
FOREWORD BY THE DEPUTY CHAIRPERSON .............................................................................................. xv
WORKSTREAMS REPORT SIGN-OFF ......................................................................................................... xvi
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  .....................................................................................................................xviii
CHAPTER ONE: Executive Summary ........................................................................................................ 1
CHAPTER TWO: Terms of Reference ........................................................................................................ 4
 2.1  Introduction  ........................................................................................................................... 4
 2.2  The Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution Overview .............................. 6
CHAPTER THREE: Global Perspective ....................................................................................................... 8
 3.1  Introduction  ........................................................................................................................... 8
 3.2 Global 4IR Strategies ............................................................................................................. 10
  3.2.1 India  ......................................................................................................................... 10
  3.2.2  United Kingdom .......................................................................................................... 12
  3.2.3  United States of America............................................................................................. 13
  3.2.4  China  ......................................................................................................................... 14
  3.2.5  Japan ......................................................................................................................... 15
  3.2.6  Singapore  .................................................................................................................. 16
  3.2.7  Mexico ........................................................................................................................ 17
  3.2.8  Malaysia ..................................................................................................................... 17
  3.2.9 Kenya  ......................................................................................................................... 17
  3.2.10  Australia .................................................................................................................... 17
  3.2.11  Canada .................................................................................................................... 17
  3.2.12  Russia ........................................................................................................................ 17
  3.2.13 Tunisia ......................................................................................................................... 17
 3.3  Lessons for South Africa ......................................................................................................... 17
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   183
page |  ii
CHAPTER FOUR: South Africa  ............................................................................................................... 19
 4.1  Introduction  ......................................................................................................................... 19
 4.2  South African Economy ......................................................................................................... 19
  4.2.1  Strengths ..................................................................................................................... 20
  4.2.2  Weaknesses ................................................................................................................ 21
  4.2.3  Mining ......................................................................................................................... 22
  4.2.4  Agriculture ................................................................................................................... 24
  4.2.5  Manufacturing ............................................................................................................ 24
  4.2.6  Financial Services Sector............................................................................................. 24
  4.2.7  Commercialisation ..................................................................................................... 27
  4.2.8  Risks  ......................................................................................................................... 27
 4.3  South African key performance indicators overview  ............................................................ 28
 4.4  Conclusion – South Africa  .................................................................................................... 28
CHAPTER FIVE: Assessment Of South Africa: Current Status Quo ........................................................... 30
 5.1  South African Policy frameworks 1994- date ......................................................................... 30
 5.2  South Africa Today: Socio-Economic and Human Development Overview .......................... 31
  5.2.1  Demography .............................................................................................................. 33
  5.2.2  Median Population Age, Young Age Dependency Ratio, Old-Age Dependency  
   Ratio and Population Age Cohorts   ............................................................................ 34
  5.3.3  Gender Parity: Sex-Ratio At Birth, Sex-Ratio by Age Cohort, and Women’s  
   Political Inclusion  ........................................................................................................ 35
  5.3.4  Gender-Based Violence (GBV) .................................................................................... 36
  5.3.5  Human Capability and Wellbeing ............................................................................... 37
  5.3.6  Health ......................................................................................................................... 39
  5.3.7  Mobility and Communication ..................................................................................... 39
  5.3.8  Economic/Material Conditions .................................................................................... 41
  5.3.9  Work, Employment and Vulnerability ........................................................................... 42
  5.3.10 Public Administration, Services, and Trends in Government Social Expenditure.......... 44
  5.3.11  Natural Environment .................................................................................................. 45
 5.4  Key Issues  ......................................................................................................................... 46
CHAPTER SIX: PC4IR 4IR Definition and Dream ..................................................................................... 47
 6.1  Introduction   ......................................................................................................................... 47
 6.2  Workstreams  ......................................................................................................................... 47
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
184  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  iii
CHAPTER 7: Introduction of the pillars .................................................................................................. 49
 7.1  Technology, Invention and Innovation .................................................................................. 49
 7.2  People and Skills .................................................................................................................... 49
 7.3 Infrastructure, Resources, and Natural Environment .............................................................. 49
 7.4  Economic Growth and Inclusivity .......................................................................................... 49
 7.5  Stakeholder Relations and Governance  .............................................................................. 49
CHAPTER EIGHT: In-depth treatment of the Pillars ................................................................................. 51
 8.1  Technology, invention and innovation ................................................................................... 51
  8.1.1  South Africa Diagnostic ............................................................................................... 52
  8.1.2 Energy sector  ............................................................................................................. 55
  8.1.3  Agriculture  .................................................................................................................. 57
  8.1.4.  Mining ......................................................................................................................... 58
  8.1.5  Telecommunication .................................................................................................... 59
  8.1.6  Water and Sanitation ................................................................................................... 61
  8.1.7  Smart Cities ................................................................................................................. 61
  8.1.8  Financial Services Sector............................................................................................. 62
  8.1.9 Health Sector  .............................................................................................................. 63
  8.1.10  Manufacturing .......................................................................................................... 63
 8.2  People and skills .................................................................................................................... 65
  8.2.1  The Changing World of Work ....................................................................................... 66
  8.2.2  Jobs of The Future ....................................................................................................... 68
  8.2.3  South Africa Diagnostic ............................................................................................... 69
  8.2.4  Changing world of work in SA ...................................................................................... 76
  8.2.5  SA 4IR Opportunities, Centres of Excellence  ............................................................... 78
 8.3  Infrastructure, resources & natural environment .................................................................... 91
  8.3.1  South Africa Diagnostic ............................................................................................... 91
  8.3.2  SA 4IR Opportunities, Centres of Excellence  ............................................................... 94
  8.3.3 Data centres  .............................................................................................................. 98
  8.3.4  High-Performance Computing  ................................................................................... 99
  8.3.5  Resources ................................................................................................................. 101
  8.3.6  Open Source South Africa (OSSA).............................................................................. 102
  8.3.7  Global Lexicon ecosystem  ....................................................................................... 105
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   185
page |  iv
 8.4  Economy growth and inclusivity  ......................................................................................... 108
  8.4.1 South Africa Diagnostic .............................................................................................. 108
  8.4.2  4IR industries of focus ................................................................................................ 109
  8.4.3  Current GDP contributions ......................................................................................... 110
  8.4.4  Sectors that are growing vs shrinking ......................................................................... 111
  8.4.5  SA 4IR Opportunities, Centres of Excellence  ............................................................. 112
 8.5  Stakeholder relations and governance  .............................................................................. 112
CHAPTER NINE: Recommendations .................................................................................................... 114
 9.1  Introduction  ....................................................................................................................... 114
 9.2  Key Recommendations ...................................................................................................... 114
  9.2.1 Invest In Human Capacity related to 4IR .................................................................. 114
  9.2.2  Build Infrastructure and owning some significant 4IR infrastructure, such as  
   hyperscale data centres, fibre-optic network and undersea cables. ....................... 114
  9.2.3  Create Platforms For Citizen Participation.  ................................................................ 114
  9.2.4  Establish a creative AI, Big Data Analytics, Blockchain, and Cybersecurity ............... 115
  9.2.5 Own government strategic data and secureCitizens’ Data ...................................... 115
  9.2.6  Incentivise Future Industries and Applications of 4IR Technologies ............................ 115
  9.2.7 Update Regulation .................................................................................................... 115
 9.3  Extended Recommendations ............................................................................................. 115
ANNEXURE A: Emerging Trends, Increasing & Decreasing Roles In Selected Industries ...................... 126
REFERENCES    .............................................................................................140Lockdown@20
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
186  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  v
GLOSSARY
1IR First Industrial Revolution
2IR Second Industrial Revolution
3-D Three Dimensional
3GPP 3rd Generation Partnership Project
3IR Third Industrial Revolution
4IR Fourth Industrial Revolution
5G Fifth Generation
5GPP 5th Generation Partnership Project
AET Adult Education and Training
AI Artificial Intelligence
AIDS Acquired Immunodeficiency syndrome
APAC Asian Pacific
API Application programming interface 
AR Augmented Reality 
ARV Antiretroviral
ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations
AWS Amazon Web Server
BERD Business Expenditure on Research and Development 
BRICS Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
BUSA Business Unity South Africa
CAICT China Academy of Information and Communications Technology
CAPS Curriculum Assessment Policy Statements
CCMA Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration
CCUS Carbon Capture Utilisation and Storage
CDE Centre for Development and Enterprise 
CEDAW Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women
CEO Chief Executive Officer
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   187
page |  vi
CETC Community Education and Training Centers
CIPC Companies and Intellectual Property Commission
CIT Coporate Income Tax
CLS Cable Landing Station 
COGTA Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs
CSIR Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
CTP Converging Technologies Platform
DBE Department of Basic Education
DBSA Development Bank of Southern Africa
DHET Department of Higher Education and Technology
DoC Department of Communications
DoEd Department of Education
DPME Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
DPSA Department of Public Service and Administration
DST Department of Science and Technology
DTPS Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services
ECD Early childhood development 
ESSA Electromagnetic Spectrum South Africa 
ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
EU European Union
FET Further Education and Training
GBV Gender Based Violence
GCI Global Connectivity Index 
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GER Gross Enrolment Rate
GHG  Green-House Gas
GII Gender Inequality Index
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
188  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  vii
GIS Geographic Information System
GNP Gross national product
GPI Gender Parity Index
GSMA Global System for Mobile Association
HCI Human Capital Index 
HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HLEG High-Level Expert Group
HPC-AI-HPDA High-performance Computing-Artificial Intelligence-Data analytics
HSDC Hyper-Scale Data Centres 
ICANN Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
ICASA Independent Communications Authority of South Africa
ICT Information and Communications Technology 
IDC Industrial Development Corporation
IDP Inclusive Development Platform
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force 
IIoT Industrial Internet of Things 
ILO International Labour Organisation 
IoT  Internet of Things
IPR  intellectual property right
IQ Intelligence quotient
IT Information Technology
ITU International Telecommunication Union
Li-ion Lithium Ion
LiPF6  Lithium Hexafluorophosphate
M2M Machine to Machine 
ML Machine Learning
MTSF Medium-term Strategic Framework
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   189
page |  viii
NACI   National Advisory Council on Innovation
NaTIS National Administration Traffic Information System
NDP National Development Plan 
NECSA Nuclear Energy Corporation of South Africa
NEET neither in employment nor in education
NFV Network Function Virtualisation
NGO Non-Govermental Organisation
NHI National Health Insurance
NRDS  National Research and Development Strategy
NSA National Skills Authority
NSF National Skills Fund
NSI National System of Innovation
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
ONF Open Network Foundation 
OSSA Open Source South Africa
P2P Peer-to-Peer
PanSALB Pan South African Language Board
PGM  platinum group metals
PIRLS Progress in International Reading Literacy Study 
PIT - Personal Income Tax
PM Particulate Matter 
PMU Power Management Unit
POP Point-of-Presence
POPI Protection of Personal Information
PPA Power Purchase Agreements 
PPP Purchasing Power Parity
PRASA Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
190  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  ix
PSET Post School Education and Training
PtL Power-to-Liquids 
R&D Research and Development
RDI Research, Development, and Innovation
RDP Reconstruction and Development Programme
RFID Radio-Frequency Identification
RSA Republic of South Africa
SA South Africa
SADC Southern African Development Community
SAFE South Africa Far East 
SALGA South African Local Government Association
SANRAL South African National Roads Agency 
SAP Structural Adjustment Programs 
SDG Sustainable Development Goals
SDN Software Defined Networking 
SEIAS  Social Economic Impact Assessment System
SETA Sector Education and Training Authorities
SITA State Information Technology Agency
SII  South Africa Innovation Index
SME Small and Medium Enterprises 
SMME Small, Micro and Medium Enterprises
SOE State Owned Enterprise
StatsSA Statistics South Africa
STEAM Science, Technology, Engineering, Art and Mathematics
STEAMIE Science, Technology, Engineering, Art, Mathematics, Innovation and Entrepreneurship
STEM Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics
STI Science, Technology, and Innovation 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   191
page |  x
TB Tuberculosis
TVET Technical and Vocational Education and Training
TYIP  Ten-year Innovation Plan
UAS Unmanned Aerial Systems 
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
UK United Kingdom
UN United Nations
UN-HDI Human Development Index
USD United States Dollar
VAT Value Added Tax
VPN Virtual Private Network
VPP Virtual Power Plants
VR  Virtual Reality
W3C World Wide Web Consortium 
WEF World Economic Forum
Wi-Fi Wireless Fidelity
ZADNA za Domain Name Authority
ZAR South African Rand
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
192  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  xi
FOREWORD 
We are extremely proud of the tremendous strides South Africa has made over the past twenty-five years in the 
post-apartheid era. We have overcome many challenges through the enduring and innovative South African 
spirit. Now, we are facing the global phenomenon known as the Fourth Industrial Revolution, which brings 
about an immense set of challenges. But this revolution also offers boundless and exciting opportunity for the 
country. The establishment of the Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution is an affirmation 
of Government’s commitment to addressing the aforementioned challenges while simultaneously seizing 
the opportunity to improve the lives of South Africans. This document sets out a vision for chartering the way 
forward for South Africa in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Our vision is:
South Africa will have a globally competitive, inclusive and shared economy with the technological capability 
and production capacity that is driven by people harnessing the Fourth Industrial Revolution to propel the 
country forward towards its social and economic goals.
The Fourth Industrial Revolution offers prospects for South Africa to its revolutionise energy, water, mining, 
manufacturing, agriculture, financial services, public administrations sectors, amongst others, in a way that 
will benefit all South Africans. This document formulates and critiques these prospects, and it is expected that 
4IR strategic policies and programmes emerging from this document will create an inclusive economy to 
stimulate growth within the country. 
Lastly, let us work together in creating a South African legacy within the realm of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
Let us create a legacy that is characterized by the enduring and innovative South African spirit.
March 2020
Prof. Tshilidzi Marwala (Vice-Chancellor, University of Johannesburg)
Deputy Chairperson: Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution
_________
PC4IR Commissioners: Prof Chris Adendorff, Ms Beth Arendse, Mr Mpho Dagada, Dr Thulani Humphrey 
Dlamini, Mr Abdul Razak Esakjee, Dr Bernard Lewis Fanaroff, Mr Michael Gastrow, Mr Xolile Christopher George,  
Ms Charmaine Houvet, Dr Prince Senyukelo Jaca, Mr Tervern Liaan John Jaftha, Mr Mohamed Shameel 
Joosub, Ms Nomso Kana, Ms Marinda Kellerman, Mr Baxolile Mabinya, Mr Rendani Mamphiswana, Ms Lindiwe 
Matlali, Ms Nomvula Mkhonza, Mr Vukani Mngxati, Mr Joseph Ndaba, Mr Andile Ngcaba, Dr Nompumelelo 
Happworth Obokoh, Mr Rendani Praise Ramabulana, Mr Leon Desmond Rolls, Mr Rob Shuter, Dr Sibongiseni 
Tunzelana Thotsejane, Mr Aubrey Tshabalala, Mr Gerhard Van Deventer, Mr Ben Venter, Ms S’onqoba Vuba 
(resigned), Mr. Calvo Mawela.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   193
page |  xii
PREFACE BY CHAIRPERSON OF THE PC4IR
 AUGUST 2020 
When I addressed the African Union Assembly in February 2020 on the occasion of 
the assumption by South Africa of the position of AU Chair, I said: 
“The Fourth Industrial Revolution presents our continent with great opportunities. The 
uptake of digital technologies will lead to improved competitiveness and provides 
fresh opportunities for inclusive growth.” 
In line with this sentiment and to ensure we take advantage of the opportunities 
presented by this digital era, South Africa established the Presidential Commission on 
the Fourth Industrial Revolution in 2019. 
Comprised of 33 eminent individuals from various sectors, the Commission was formed 
to advise government and society on both the opportunities and risks presented by 
the Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
The Commission is divided into eight workstreams, each with their own strategic focus. 
Over the past few months, each workstream has been consulting relevant stakeholders 
across society on how South Africa can make best use of the opportunities of rapid 
technological change. The workstreams have also reviewed global best practice by 
studying the experiences of other countries. 
This era calls for enhanced state capacity to seize the opportunities of the digital 
economy. South Africa must remain abreast of the exponential growth in technological 
change and ensure that no citizen or community is left behind. 
The Commission’s report recommends interventions to ensure that we extract the 
greatest benefits from these revolutionary technological advances. For South Africa to 
achieve inclusive growth and social development in the digital era, the country must 
find ways of integrating scientific and technological innovations into the economy. 
The recommendations in the Commission’s report will help South Africa reinvigorate 
its industrialisation aspirations and significantly improve its global and continental 
economic competitiveness. 
I am therefore pleased to receive this report and express my sincere gratitude to the 
Commissioners.
___________________________________________
President Cyril Matamela Ramaphosa
Chairperson PC4IR
President of Republic of South Africa
President Cyril 
Matamela Ramaphosa
Chairperson PC4IR
President of Republic 
of South Africa

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
194  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  xiii
REMARKS BY MINSTER
The Government of the Republic of South Africa, under the leadership of His 
Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa, has taken a bold and decisive step in seeking 
to transform the South African economy  by emphasising digital communication and 
technologies as the foundation for building an inclusive, economically vibrant society.  
This approach is contained in the mandate of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR).   
To achieve this milestone, the President announced in his 2018 State of the Nation 
Address (SONA) that the then Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services 
(DTPS) would establish a Presidential Commission on the 4th Industrial Revolution 
(PC4IR).  In summary, the mandate of the PC4IR, which was to be chaired by the 
President, was to provide the Government with a Report on how the envisaged digital 
revolution of the local economy can be achieved.  The President thereafter directed 
the Office of the Minister: Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services to 
oversee and lead the work of the PC4IR, and to later finalise an implementation plan 
for the achievement of the anticipated findings under the Report. 
In December 2018, DTPS established the Terms of References (TORs) for the work of 
the PC4IR, which was published in the Government Gazette together with requests 
for applications by qualifying candidates to undertake the work of the PC4IR.  
Approximately 700 applications were received by the Department, which were duly 
considered, thereby culminated in the appointment of 33 Commissioners.   
With the Terms of Reference established, and the Commissioners duly appointed, the 
PC4IR was ready to commence its work.  It  was at  that  juncture that the President 
delegated  his role as the Chairperson of the PC4IR to my office while at the same 
time  directing me to provide the resources necessary for this crucial project, including 
but not limited to the assembling of  the Secretarial Services to support the work of the 
PC4IR.  Working with the Commissioners, we were able to table an initial diagnostic 
Report on 4IR to the President on 07 November 2019.  Thereafter, PC4IR guided the 
Government during the January 2019 Cabinet Lekgotla on various elements of the 
4IR, as contained in the diagnostic Report. 
I am therefore pleased to announce that the PC4IR has now finalised its Report, 
and that the Report has been approved by the President.  The Report recommends 
eight (8) principle work-streams for the achievement of the ideals under the 4IR, with 
profound findings on how the opportunities presented by the 41R can be exploited in 
the building of an inclusive, economically vibrant digital society.
I am further pleased to announce that the Department has also commenced with 
the momentous task of developing a comprehensive implementation plan for the 
achievement of the findings under the Report, including setting out milestones for the 
implementation work and timelines for achieving those milestones.
I would like to extend my sincere appreciation to the esteemed Commissioners for 
their praiseworthy effort in the undertaking of their duties to the Nation and completing 
the Report in a timely manner.  I would also like to thank the officials in my Department 
that provided the necessary support for the work of the PC4IR over and above their 
daily work activities. 
Ms Stella Tembisa 
Ndabeni-Abrams
Minister of 
Communications and 
Digital Technologies
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   195
page |  xiv
The journey towards making South Africa digitally competitive on a global scale while 
at the same time preparing an inclusive economy through the digital communication 
and technologies has now begun in earnest.  The PC4IR Report is the founding 
document for this work, while being at the centre of guiding the work of Government 
for many years to come.
_______________________________________________
Ms Stella Tembisa Ndabeni-Abrams
Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
196  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  xv
FOREWORD BY THE DEPUTY CHAIRPERSON
We are extremely proud of the tremendous strides South Africa has made over 
the past twenty-five years in the post-apartheid era. We have overcome many 
challenges through the enduring and innovative South African spirit. Now, we are 
facing the global phenomenon known as the Fourth Industrial Revolution, which brings 
about an immense set of challenges. But this revolution also offers boundless and 
exciting opportunity for the country. The establishment of the Presidential Commission 
on the Fourth Industrial Revolution is an affirmation of Government’s commitment 
to addressing the aforementioned challenges while simultaneously seizing the 
opportunity to improve the lives of South Africans. This document sets out a vision 
for chartering the way forward for South Africa in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Our 
vision is: 
South Africa will have a globally competitive, inclusive and shared economy with 
the technological capability and production capacity that is driven by people 
harnessing the Fourth Industrial Revolution to propel the country forward towards its 
social and economic goals. 
The Fourth Industrial Revolution offers prospects for South Africa to its revolutionise 
energy, water, mining, manufacturing, agriculture, financial services, public 
administrations sectors, amongst others, in a way that will benefit all South Africans. 
This document formulates and critiques these prospects, and it is expected that 4IR 
strategic policies and programmes emerging from this document will create an 
inclusive economy to stimulate growth within the country. 
Lastly, let us work together in creating a South African legacy within the realm of 
the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Let us create a legacy that is characterized by the 
enduring and innovative South African spirit. 
March 2020 
Prof. Tshilidzi Marwala (Vice-Chancellor, University of Johannesburg) 
Deputy Chairperson: Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution 
_________ 
PC4IR Commissioners: Prof Chris Adendorff, Ms Beth Arendse, Mr Mpho Dagada, Dr 
Thulani Humphrey Dlamini, Mr Abdul Razak Esakjee, Dr Bernard Lewis Fanaroff, Mr Michael 
Gastrow, Mr Xolile Christopher George, Ms Charmaine Houvet, Dr Prince Senyukelo 
Jaca, Mr Tervern Liaan John Jaftha, Mr Mohamed Shameel Joosub, Ms Nomso Kana, 
Ms Marinda Kellerman, Mr Baxolile Mabinya, Mr Rendani Mamphiswana, Ms Lindiwe 
Matlali, Ms Nomvula Mkhonza, Mr Vukani Mngxati, Mr Joseph Ndaba, Mr Andile 
Ngcaba, Dr Nompumelelo Happworth Obokoh, Mr Rendani Praise Ramabulana, Mr 
Leon Desmond Rolls, Mr Rob Shuter, Dr Sibongiseni Tunzelana Thotsejane, Mr Aubrey 
Tshabalala, Mr Gerhard Van Deventer, Mr Ben Venter, Ms S’onqoba Vuba (resigned), 
Mr. Calvo Mawela.
Professor Tshilidzi Marwala
(Vice-Chancellor
University of Johannesburg)
Deputy Chairperson: 
Presidential Commission  
on the Fourth  
Industrial Revolution
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   197
page |  xvi
WORKSTREAMS REPORT SIGN-OFF
PC4IR COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONERS SIGNATURES 
1. Prof. Tshilidzi Marwala 
2. Dr. Andile Ngcaba
3. Mr. Shameel Joosub
4. Ms. Nomso Kana
5. Mr. Xolile George
6. Dr. Bernard Fanaroff
7. Dr. Thulani Dlamini
8. Mr. Vukani Mngxati
 
9. Mr. Rendani Ramabulana
10. Mr. Joseph Ndaba
11. Dr. Nompumelelo Happworth Obokoh
12. Dr. Busisiwe Mbuyisa 
13. Dr. Sibongiseni Tunzelana Thotsejane
14. Mr. Leon Rolls
15. Prof. Chris Adendorff
16. Mr. Calvo Mawela
17. Ms. Beth Arendse

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
198  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  xvii
18. Dr. Senyukelo Jaca
19. Mr. Baxolile Mabinya
20. Mr. Ben Venter
21. Ms Lindiwe Matlali
22. Mr. Abdul Razak Esakjee
23. Ms. Nomvula Lindiwe Mkhonza 
24. Mr. Tervern Jaftha
25. Mr. Rendani Mamphiswana
26. Ms. Sonqoba Vuba
27. Ms. Charmaine Houvet
28. Mr. Gerhard van Deventer
29. Dr. Michael Gastrow
30. Mr. Rob Shutter
31. Mr. Aubrey Tshabalala
32. Mr. Mpho Dagada

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   199
page |  xviii
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
In producing this diagnostic report, the Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution, has 
been facilitating consultation sessions and holding meetings to engage on the areas of focus required. 
Organisations, departments and individuals that we have and continue to consult with are listed below. They 
however form just the starting point as we continue consultations on the road to the development of a South 
African Fourth Industrial Revolution strategy.
1 Absa 2 Abundance Dusty Velvet
3 Acacia Economics 4 Adv Jean Pierre Syndiers (Private)
5 African Leadership Academy 6 Agricultural Business Chamber (ABC)
7 Allan Gray Orbis Foundation 8 Alliance 4 African Intelligence (A 4ai)
9 Altron / Nexus 10 Amazon Web Services (AWS)
11 Ambledown Financial Services 12 American Chamber of Commerce in SA
13 Angel Hub 14 Anglo American South Africa
15 Animation SA 16 Armaments Corporation of South Africa SOC 
Ltd (ARMSCOR)
17 Banking Association of South Africa (BASA) 18 BBBEE ICT Sector Council 
19 BitbyByte 20 Black Business Council
21 BMIT 22 Bon Com Group
23 Bowline Security Pty 24 Broadband Infraco SOC Ltd
25 Broadxcess 26 BT
27 BUA Microtronix 28 Bunang Holdings
29 Cape Innovation and Technology Initiative 
(CiTi) 30 Cathseta
31 Cell C 32 Centre for Development of Information 
Technology Policy (CDITP).
33 CISCO 34 City of Tshwane, Office of the Mayor
35 City Power 36 Cloanywhere
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
200  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  xix
37 Cosatu, Naledi 38 CPITP
39 CRC 40 Create Your Creativity
41 CSIR 42 Dark Fibre Africa (Pty) Ltd
43 Data Infosys 44 Data Intensive Research Initiative of South 
Africa (DIRISA)
45 DCDT 46 Decision Intelleqt
47 Deloitte 48 Department for Basic Education  
49 Department of Agriculture Forestry and 
Fisheries 50 Department of Basic Education
51 Department of Basic Education, KZN 
Province 52 Department of Economic Development
53 Department of Economic Development, 
Gauteng – Creative Industries 54 Department of Higher Education and 
Training, 4IR Ministerial Task Team
55 Department of Higher Education and 
Training, TVET Colleges 56 Department of Justice and Constitutional 
Development
57 Department of Mineral Resources,  Small-
Scale Mining 58 Department of Planning, Monitoring and 
Evaluation
59 Department of Public Service and 
Administration 60 Department of Rural Development & Land 
Reform  
We would like to thank the following organisations that assisted the Presidential Commission with resourcing 
needs leading up to the publication of this Diagnostic Report: 
- MTN Group,
- University of Johannesburg,
- University of Pretoria, 
- Vodacom South Africa
Thanks also goes to the members of our Secretariat in the Department of Telecommunications and Postal 
Services, led previously by Ms Jeanette Morwane and currently led by Mr Alfred Mashishi.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   201
page |  1
CHAPTER ONE: Executive Summary
We are currently in the initial phase of the fourth industrial revolution. The world has 
witnessed three industrial revolutions over the past two hundred and fifty years. Any 
industrial revolution brings in a significant shift and affects the society immensely in 
various ways.
The Fourth Industrial Revolution is a result of the meeting of multiple technologies, as 
well as multiple broad domains coming together which were relatively independent 
before. It is often said to be the convergence of the technologies bringing the digital/
cyber, physical and biological worlds together. It is also about developing new 
technologies and business models. History has shown us that for a country to progress, 
it should be an active participant in the industrial revolutions to reap the benefits of it 
early. South Africa was not an active participant in the first three industrial revolutions 
due to various reasons. This hindered the growth of South Africa.
President Cyril Ramaphosa has formed the Presidential Commission on the Fourth 
Industrial Revolution (PC4IR) and also, has named individuals from the Commission 
with the undertaking to help the government in making the most of the open doors 
exhibited by the current modern upheaval. The errand of the Commission, which 
is being led by the President, is to distinguish relevant policies, systems and action 
plans that will position South Africa as a focused worldwide player. The President set 
the tone of the country towards the Fourth Industrial Revolution by stating - “Unless we 
adapt, unless we understand the nature of the profound change that is reshaping our 
world, and unless we readily embrace the opportunities it presents, the promise of our 
nation’s birth will forever remain unfulfilled”. The thirty-member Presidential Commission 
on the Fourth Industrial Revolution comprises eminent persons from different sectors 
of society and reflects diversity in youth, gender, business and labour, including digital 
start-ups founders and digital entrepreneurs.
Many countries around the world have already begun to develop strategies, policies, 
resources, and legislation to exploit the benefits of the Fourth Industrial Revolution – 
which is reviewed in this report. Technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution are 
already impacting different economies globally. South Africa is not immune to this 
trend. There are vast opportunities available for South Africa to exploit if resources are 
effectively allocated and utilised through a well-defined strategy.
There is a necessity to look at all these contributing sectors with a 4IR lens, to understand 
the likely growth and relevance of these sectors in the global 4IR context. In addition, 
South Africa would need to assess strengths and opportunities it possesses to position 
itself for growth in key industries and growth in its local and international contribution 
to 4IR focus sectors.
A key strategy for South Africa is to ensure the preparation of the younger generation 
for jobs of the future that may not exist at this moment in time. Through the process 
of upskilling youth about the Fourth Industrial Revolution it will ensure South Africa will 
have the necessary skills for the future. Furthermore, the youth could use these skills 
gained to follow an entrepreneurial path that would allow them to be job providers 
and not job seekers. This will add an advantage to the South African economy.
“Unless we adapt,  
unless we understand  
the nature of the profound  
change that is reshaping  
our world, and unless we  
readily embrace the  
opportunities it presents,  
the promise of our  
nation’s birth will forever  
remain unfulfilled.”
President Cyril Ramaphosa
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
202  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  2
In 2013, South Africans articulated a development vision, Vision 2030, encapsulated in the National 
Development Plan (NDP) as the latest iteration in the continuing quest to ensure security and welfare for all. 
Explicitly aimed at removing the triple scourge of poverty, inequality, and unemployment by 2030, Vision 2030 
recognised that the country’s socio-economic transformation is central to entrenching a vibrant democracy 
in which all South Africans can meaningfully and actively participate. Since 1994, the state has actively 
engaged in the design of policies aimed at addressing South Africa’s historical legacy of an excluded and 
under-served majority. It has also sought to have an over-arching policy framework that gives direction to 
all facets of the state and attendant programmes. Given a constantly evolving local and global context, 
these policies have been adapted over time to emphasise themes requiring critical attention. In the Fourth 
Industrial Revolution, this adaptability is now more critical than ever before.
The Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution encourages South Africa to adopt an adapted 
definition of the Revolution that ensures a human-centric approach defined as:
The 4th Industrial Revolution is an era where people are using smart, connected and converged 
Cyber, Physical and Biological systems and smart business models to define and reshape the 
social, economic and political spheres.
In light of the defining characteristics of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the South African need to place 
the human at the centre, as a country, we also need to ensure that the Revolution is used as a means to 
an end towards our economic and social needs and goals, as unpacked in this document. A focus on this 
Revolution or Technology purely for the sake of it would be a lost opportunity in moving the country forward 
and in improving our global competitiveness while driving inclusive growth and addressing our poverty, 
inequality and unemployment challenges.
The Commission has rallied its efforts and work to produce a strategic plan that is centred on a dream that 
assists us in focusing our efforts. The proposed dream of South Africa in a Fourth Industrial Revolution world is:
South Africa will have a globally competitive, inclusive and shared economy with the 
technological capability and production capacity that is driven by people harnessing the 4IR 
to propel the country forward towards its social and economic goals, instead of falling behind.
Given the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the opportunity it presents, if harnessed by South Africa to make 
progress towards the country’s economic and social goals, this report clearly identifies the main drivers 
of a South African 4IR Strategy and plan. These drivers would result in key scenarios for the country being 
developed, which can be tested and projected to understand their likely impact on the country, assessed for 
likelihood, and for the development of implementation plans.
Given the assessment of South Africa’s reality and preparedness for the 4IR, as discussed in this document, five 
key pillars are focused on that relate to developing a South African 4IR strategy. These five pillars map closely 
to the NDP Approach To Change, which speaks to a focus that looks at Conditions, Opportunities, Capabilities 
working in a virtuous cycle with Employment, Growth, Poverty Reduction, and Rising Living Standards. The 
key pillars are Technology, Invention and Innovation; People and Skills; Infrastructure, Resources, and Natural 
Environment; Economic Growth and Inclusivity; Stakeholder Relations and Governance.
After extensive research, analysis, consultations, and stakeholder engagements – as detailed in this document 
– a number of recommendations arise. The Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution 
has categorised these recommendations as major and minor, in relation to their priority levels. The major 
recommendations include: Establishment of a National Institute for Artificial Intelligence; Establishment of a 
National Data Centre; Review, amendment and/or updating of all legislations in line with the developments 
in Fourth Industrial Revolution; Ensuring competitive connectivity; Incentivising of the applications of Fourth 
Industrial Revolution technologies; Preparation of South Africa for the future of work; Establishment of a 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   203
page |  3
National Cybersecurity Institute; Adoption of a major theme around policy of data by the National Research 
Foundation. The details of several minor recommendations – relating to these major recommendations – are 
also included in this document.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
204  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  4
CHAPTER TWO: Terms of Reference
2.1  INTRODUCTION
We are currently in the initial phase of the fourth industrial revolution. The world has witnessed three industrial 
revolutions over the past two hundred and fifty years. Before the three industrial revolutions Mapungubwe, 
consisting of modern-day Zimbabwe, Botswana, and South Africa contained within it, various industrial 
capabilities. The figure below (Figure 1) provides insight into these industrial capabilities from as early as the 
1st century.
Figure 1: Africa Industrial capabilities summarised through time and place
Any industrial revolution brings in a significant shift and affects the society immensely in various ways. The First 
Industrial Revolution started in the late eighteenth century with the use of steam to power different processes. 
Before this revolution, human and animal power was used for production. One of the significant inventions, 
which symbolizes this revolution, is the steam engine. Steam power was also used for driving weaving mills. 
This led to increased and localised production in factories. Due to industrialisation, there was an effect on 
the social structure; people started moving from villages to the cities where industries were located. We 
began slowly moving away from an agriculture-based society to an industry-based society. The First Industrial 
Revolution took place in England and it took about a century for different parts of the world to benefit from 
this revolution.
The Second Industrial Revolution took place about a century after the First Industrial Revolution. One of the 
significant inventions that was a driving force for the Second Industrial Revolution was the invention of electricity. 
During this revolution, steam power was replaced by electric power. Slowly industries started to be driven by 
power generated by electricity. During this revolution, another major invention was that of electric motors, 
which led to assembly lines and the mass production of goods and services. The invention of electricity 
changed society in a significant way. Due to electric lights, it was now possible to have social activities even 
after sunset. It became easier for industries to be operational at night thus increasing the production capacity 
and outputs of the industries.
The Third Industrial Revolution started in the second half of the twentieth century approximately a century after 
the Second Industrial Revolution. One of the major driving forces behind this revolution was the advancement 
in the semiconductor industry. Transistors were invented in 1947 at the bell labs in USA. The invention of 
transistors brought in a significant change as information could now be digitised and stored easily. The Third 
1000 BC-1st Century
Kingdom of Kush, modern Sudan
Scientific / Industrial Capabilities:
Pyramids (maths, physics, 
astronomy); International Trade & Iron 
artifacts production
12th Century
Mapungubwe, Southern Africa
Scientific / Industrial Capabilities: 
Gold Mining & International Trade
13th - 17th Century
Timbuktu, West Africa
Scientific / Industrial Capabilities: 
Science & Mathematics Scholarship, 
International Trade
16th - 17th Century
Europe
Scientific / Industrial Capabilities: 
‘grand synthesis’ of modern science
18th Century
Europe & North America
Scientific / Industrial Capabilities: 
Steam & Water Power, Mechanical 
Production
19th Century
Europe & North America (gradual 
diffusion to the rest of the world)
Scientific / Industrial Capabilities: 
Electrical Power, Mass-production
20th Century
Europe & North America (gradual 
diffusion to the rest of the world)
Scientific / Industrial Capabilities: 
Computing Power; Automated 
production
21st Century
Europe & North America (gradual 
diffusion to the rest of the world)
Scientific / Industrial Capabilities: 
Internet, Artificial Intelligence
1000BC - 1ST CENTURY
12TH CENTURY
13TH - 17TH CENTURY
16TH - 17TH CENTURY
18TH CENTURY
19TH CENTURY
20TH CENTURY
21ST CENTURY
Industrial Capabilities Summarised Through Time and Place
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   205
page |  5
Industrial Revolution also saw the advent of computers leading to the automation of industries, thus increasing 
production and efficiency. Another important invention of this revolution was the internet. The invention of 
the internet allowed the world to connect virtually. The figure below (Figure 2) illustrates the four industrial 
revolutions.
The Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) is not an extension of the third industrial revolution, with an increase in 
computing power and better connectivity. The Fourth Industrial Revolution is a result of the meeting of multiple 
technologies, as well as multiple broad domains coming together which were relatively independent before. 
It is often said to be the convergence of the technologies bringing the digital/cyber, physical and biological 
worlds together
1. It is also about developing new technologies and business models. In the Fourth Industrial 
Revolution more meaningful information is being extracted from available data using different algorithms 
and high computational capacity and capability. Some of the technologies driving this revolution are 
blockchain, artificial intelligence (AI), biotechnology, nanotechnology, cloud computing, internet of things, 
3D printing and autonomous vehicles. Huge progress has been made in the area of Artificial Intelligence over 
the past decade. This is mainly due to the increased computational power that has become available at a 
lower cost and the availability of massive amounts of data. The data of the world is growing at a swift rate. It 
is forecasted that by 2025 the world will have about 163 trillion gigabytes of data
2. Thus, as more technology 
is being used to  process and make sense of data, the more popular  it will become in the near future.
Figure 2: Industrial revolutions timeline3
History has shown us that for a country to progress, it should be an active participant in the industrial revolutions 
to reap the benefits of it early. South Africa was not an active participant in the first three industrial revolutions 
due to various reasons. This hindered the growth of South Africa. For example, the first steam engine came to 
South Africa sixty years after it was invented in Britain
4.  Similarly, the first commercial flight in South Africa flew 
sixty years after it did in the United States of America (USA). It took about seven years for the internet to come 
to South Africa. We cannot afford to lose on benefiting from the current industrial revolution. To do that, South 
1   https://www.weforum.org/about/the-fourth-industrial-revolution-by-klaus-schwab
2   https://assets.ey.com/content/dam/ey-sites/ey com/en_gl/topics/workforce/Seagate-WP-DataAge2025-March-2017.pdf
3   https://www.seekmomentum.com/blog/manufacturing/the-evolution-of-industry-from-1-to-4
4   https://www.sahistory.org.za/dated-event/first-railway-line-south-africa-between-durban-and-point-officially-opened
Mechanisation, 
steam power, 
weaving loom
Mass production,
assembly line,
electrical energy
Automation,
computers and 
electronics
Cyber Physical Systems,
Internet of things,
networks
1784 1870 1969 TODAY
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
206  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  6
Africa needs to be an active participant of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and to have a national strategy in 
this regard on how to steer the country to actively participate and reap the benefits of the current industrial 
revolution.
Some caution South Africa’s ambitions of being an active participant in this revolution, however, the reduction 
of global boundaries, as well as the fast pace of this revolution, means that access to the opportunities of this 
revolution is more readily available and can more quickly be leveraged.
2.2  THE PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSION ON THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION OVERVIEW
President Cyril Ramaphosa has formed the Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution (PC4IR) 
and also, has named individuals from the Commission with the undertaking to help the government in making 
the most of the open doors exhibited by the current modern upheaval. The errand of the Commission, which 
is being led by the President, is to distinguish relevant policies, systems and action plans that will position 
South Africa as a focused worldwide player. The President set the tone of the country towards the Fourth 
Industrial Revolution by stating - “Unless we adapt, unless we understand the nature of the profound change 
that is reshaping our world, and unless we readily embrace the opportunities it presents, the promise of 
our nation’s birth will forever remain unfulfilled”
5. The thirty-member Presidential Commission on the Fourth 
Industrial Revolution comprises eminent persons from different sectors of society and reflects diversity in youth, 
gender, business and labour, including digital start-ups founders and digital entrepreneurs.
The possibilities and prioritisation of pathways presented by the 4IR are given material direction and purpose 
within the South African National Development Plan (NDP) towards 2030. The NDP , South Africa’s long-
term development strategy, contains critical targets for the eradication of poverty and the reduction of 
unemployment and extreme inequality. Thus, in evaluating the socio-economic impacts and opportunities 
of the 4IR, there is an opportunity to address the core concerns of the NDP and in so doing, provide a policy-
embedded path towards our constitutional objectives in the context of a significantly improved and altered 
future.
The Presidential Commission was appointed in April 2019 with the following terms of reference:
5
• Develop an integrated country strategy and plan to respond to 4IR including detailed interventions to 
be carried out in achieving global competitiveness of the key economic sectors (agriculture, finance, 
mining, manufacturing, ICT, and Science, Technology, and Innovation);
• Advise on strategies for skills development and future of work;
• Advise on a technology research and development program to advance 4IR;
• Recommendation an institutional framework and mechanism to coordinate 4IR programs; 
• Recommend enabling relevant infrastructure for SA to participate in the digital economy;
• Make recommendations on approaches to address inclusivity and the digital divide;
• Advise on strategies to mobilise resources to support the 4IR interventions;
• Recommend mechanisms to quantify the impact of interventions on 4IR; and
• Recommend on interventions to enable innovation and entrepreneurship, and for SMMEs to take 
advantage of the 4IR;
5 https://www.dtps.gov.za/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=811:president-cyril-ramaphosa-appoints-
commission-on-fourth-industrial-revolution&catid=13&Itemid=138
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   207
page |  7
The Commission’s method of work includes the following:
• The Commission must seek to adjust their exercises accordingly to guarantee alignment to the NDP . 
• The Commission may set up its very own Working Groups as it considers essential and exercises restraint 
to welcome specialists and different stakeholders to take part in its gatherings. 
• The Commission should audit and make suggestions on its terms of reference regularly.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
208  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  8
CHAPTER THREE: Global Perspective
3.1  INTRODUCTION
The Fourth Industrial Revolution, also commonly known as Industry 4.0, has arrived. The term Industry 4.0 
was first introduced in 2011 at the Hannover Messe Trade Fair in Germany by Henning Kagermann (an SAP 
founder), Wolfgang Wahlster (a professor of AI), and Wolf-Dieter Lukas (a German Federal Ministry of Education 
and Research Official) (reference A). Over time, several definitions and descriptions for this revolution have 
come about.
According to the WEF, “The Fourth Industrial Revolution is about more than just technology-driven change; it is 
an opportunity to help everyone, including leaders, policy-makers, and people from all income groups and 
nations, to harness converging technologies in order to create an inclusive, human-centred future”.
6
WEF also describes the Fourth Industrial Revolution as being “characterized by a range of new technologies 
that are fusing the physical, digital and biological worlds, impacting all disciplines, economies and industries, 
and even challenging ideas about what it means to be human.”
7
Simply put, the Fourth Industrial Revolution is based on a convergence of multiple technologies. A driver of the 
fourth industrial revolution is the tremendous increase in the data processing capabilities of computers, while 
World data is projected to grow at 40% rate per year. Additionally, the emergence of data lakes and cloud 
computing has played a role in reducing the cost of data processing due to the use of shared infrastructure 
and on-demand provisions. Some of the rapidly growing technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution 
are artificial intelligence (AI), big data analytics. machine learning (ML), robotics, quantum computing, 
biotechnology, additive or 3D printing, nanotechnology, internet of things (IoT), cyber-physical systems (CPS), 
blockchain, driverless vehicles, Machine to Machine (M2M) communication, and other new technologies. 
Moreover, as these individual technologies are evolving at an exponential rate, they are also playing a 
role in the development of other new technologies. These technologies are already disrupting companies, 
industries, small and big businesses, and governments around the world. Most sectors, among other things 
healthcare, financial services, transport, trade, energy are being affected in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
The effects and impacts of the disruptions brought about by the revolution are both broad and deep. 
A major common thread through many of the different technological pillars of the Fourth Industrial Revolution 
is data. For example, cloud computing deals with the processing of data by servers which may be located 
at remote locations; IoT deals with collection of data using different types of sensors and processing them 
locally or in the cloud to get meaningful information; cybersecurity mainly deals with ways of storing and 
transferring of data in a secure mode.
Data is the new gold in the age of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. It is the true invisible hand behind 4IR, 
a critical feedstock of macro-economic development, and requires acceleration to drive a rapid rate of 
knowledge generation (Gleason, 2018).
Studies have forecasted that by 2025, the global datasphere will grow to 163 zettabytes (trillion gigabytes) 
(Figure 3). These data sources consist of social media, like Twitter and Facebook, emails, webpages, online 
searches etc. In general, any activity in the digital world creates data. Various sectors such as health, utilities, 
mining, manufacturing, transport and many more, tend to generate massive amounts of data. Globally, 
these data are one of the critical drivers of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. The internet also provides a 
considerable amount of data that can be useful to various organisations, governments, businesses, and 
researchers, etc. Companies and governments around the world are now investing in Big Data infrastructure 
in order to mine insights from these data. For example, data analytics can be used to strategically inform 
government’s resource planning and deployment.
6   https://www.weforum.org/focus/fourth-industrial-revolution
7   https://www.weforum.org/about/the-fourth-industrial-revolution-by-klaus-schwab
ñi
71)
rs
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 201b 2016 2011 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2020
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   209
page |  9
Several countries around the world have recognised the importance of data resources and have thus already 
implemented data protection laws. Additionally, the data ecosystem also brings about the critical need for 
policy and legislation relating to the use of data, including ethics and security. Several countries have already 
put in place policies and legislation that extend beyond basic laws on the protection of personal data.
Figure 3 : Projected yearly increase in global data 
Source: IDC’s Data Age 2025 study, sponsored by Seagate, 2017 [UJ_4]
The key to this analysis is the understanding that data is undeniably the central, productive force of the 4IR. In 
other words, the economic value to be derived from this age is located in the ownership and management 
of data. Furthermore, as we contemplate the technological artefacts and capabilities of the 4IR, we are 
compelled to examine data as a separate force and the ultimate determinant of how social and economic 
value will be accessed and experienced in the coming age. Put differently, as we contemplate South Africa 
in the 4IR, we must keep at the centre of our understanding the following key concepts:
• The dominant logic of the emerging future is one in which science and capital are fused. In other 
words, the system of capitalism has produced the kind of technology future we are experiencing, 
in which personal data has been commodified and brought into the market.
• It is not scientific knowledge nor its technological artefacts that will determine the future, but 
rather the use of the 4IR’s core capital, data, that will determine the extent to which advantages 
are created, protected, and reproduced.
This rationale is not beyond the state’s governance. Instead, it compels the country to take a more central 
role in the collection, dissemination, and analysis of data, understanding that key economic advantages are 
contained within it, but perhaps more importantly, that fundamental human rights are now intertwined with 
the protection of data. On a commercial level, the questions we should therefore ask are not merely about 
the integration of technologies into production processes, but of the ownership of critical intellectual property 
and data rights that are intertwined with technology use. Appreciating that machines can indeed liberate 
humans from arduous manual labour, we must also understand that the realm of economic control for human 
beings is precisely in the human capabilities that will enable the design, deployment, and management of 
artificial intelligence, which will pervade human experience.

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
210  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  10
3.2 GLOBAL 4IR STRATEGIES
Many countries around the world have already begun to develop strategies, policies, resources, and legislation 
to exploit the benefits of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. The following figure highlights the critical activities of 
some of these countries (Figure 4).
Figure 4: An Overview of National Strategies
8
The discussion below will provide a more in-depth insight into the various countries’ strategies with regard to 
the fourth industrial revolution with a specific focus on the following countries; India, United Kingdom, United 
States of America, China, Japan, and Singapore. After that the discussion will provide snippets of the following 
countries’ strategies; Mexico, Malaysia, Kenya, Australia, Canada, Russia, and Tunisia.
3.2.1 India
India’s National Program on AI, intended to pursue Transformational AI, was launched in 2018, the implementing 
custodian of which is the National Institute for Transforming India.
9 Essentially a government think-tank, the 
entity designs the long-term policies and programmes at central and State-level. It is a high-level structure 
whose Council is chaired by the Indian Prime-Minister with the Chief Ministers of each State serving as Council-
members. 
In its current phase, NITI-Aayog’s AI focus involves three main activities, all of which have been selected based 
on desired and optimal social impact: 
• Exploratory proof-of-concept AI projects 
• Developing a national strategy to build an AI ecosystem 
• Partnerships between the government and technology companies to implement AI projects in 
critical policy areas like agriculture and health
8 http://www.jaist.ac.jp/~bao/AI/OtherAIstrategies/An%20Overview%20of%20National%20AI%20Strategies%20%E2%80%93%20
Politics%20+%20AI%20%E2%80%93%20Medium.pdf
9 India, 2018  http://niti.gov.in/writereaddata/files/document_publication/NationalStrategy-for-AI-Discussion-Paper.pdf
March: AI 
Technology 
Strategy
July: Next 
Generation 
AI Plan
December: 
Three-Year 
Action Plan
January: 
Blockchain 
and AI Task 
Force
January: 
Strategy for 
Digital 
Growth
March: 
France’s AI 
Strategy
April: 
Communi-
cation on AI
May: 
Australian 
Budget
May: AI 
R&D 
Strategy
June: 
National 
Strategy for 
AI
Fall 2018: 
Germany’s 
AI Strategy
March: 
Plan - 
Canadian 
AI Strategy
May: AI 
Singapore 
Announced
October: 
AI Strategy 
2031
December: 
Finland’s AI 
Strategy
January: 
Budget for 
AI Taiwan
March: AI at 
the Service 
of Citizens
April: First 
Workshop 
for Strategy
April: UK AI 
Sector Deal
May: White 
House 
Summit on 
AI
May: 
Sweden’s AI 
Strategy
June: 
Towards an 
AI Strategy 
in Mexico
Fall 2018: 
EU’s AI 
Strategy
2017 2018
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   211
page |  11
In this regard, AI (and technology in general) is seen as the lever for social transformation, human development, 
and inclusive growth that, in the process, will democratise access to new technologies. To these ends, the 
principles informing India’s #AIforAll strategy are: 
• address the country’s skills shortage;  
• test-out and implement AI solutions (whether in the form of applications, research, development, 
technology, or responsible AI) that can be scaled for implementation in other emerging 
economies; 
• harness collaborations and partnerships, domestically and internationally. 
More concretely, the following social and human development emphases have been prioritised for the 
implementation of #AIforAll
10: 
• Healthcare: expanded access and moderateness of value human services.
• Agriculture: improved farmers’ pay, expanded farm profitability, and decrease wastage. 
• Education: improved access and nature of instruction. 
• Smart Cities and Infrastructure: productive and availability for the expanding urban population. 
• Smart Mobility and Transportation: more astute and more secure methods of transportation 
and better traffic and blockage issues.
Transformative AI (#AI4ALL) is principally a technology-led social transformation and human development 
strategy. As a social strategy that seeks to deploy technology to address the country’s pressing challenges to 
human wellbeing and, in the case of farmers, livelihoods, #AI4ALL is an ambitious data-driven technological 
response that will need secure data-collection and -sharing not only between government departments and 
across all three levels of the state, but between the public and private sector. 
The section on the demographic profile of Indian society noted, among a range of features, that less than 
a fifth of India’s working population is classified as skilled. Of this, an even smaller proportion possesses the 
requisite IT skills to be able to participate in the country’s AI transition. As such, one of the recommendations 
from #AI4All is a drive to upskill Indian workers. Given the size and urgency of the task, the strategy also 
recommends the recognition and standardisation of informal training institutions as a way of bolstering 
government capacity to provide training. This should be coupled with the creation of open platforms for 
learning, which can facilitate self-directed, online learning opportunities. Finally, the strategy identifies a need 
to create financial incentives for employers to invest in employee skills-upgrading. 
In light of the Indian economy’s shift away from agriculture to services, the strategy highlights the need for 
government incentives to encourage private sector investment to support the AI solution-development value 
chain. The idea is to generate jobs that include tasks like data annotation, image classification, or speech 
transcription services, which are both labour intensive and do not require a high level of IT skills capability. 
Overall, the strategy identifies the totality of the Indian education, skills, and training ecosystem as the 
cornerstone for realising #AI4All. Within the formal schooling and higher education segments, the following 
are some of the recommendations from the AI strategy: 
• Introducing AI / Machine Learning (ML) in schools
• The development of useful bridging courses, at post graduate level, for graduates in non-AI / IT 
fields to acquire the requisite proficiency;
10   India, 2018  http://niti.gov.in/writereaddata/files/document_publication/NationalStrategy-for-AI-Discussion-Paper.pdf
Ideas
the world's most innovative economy
5
foundations of
productivity
People
good jobs and greater earning power for all
Infrastructure
a major upgrade to the UK's infrastructure
Business environment
the best place to start and grow a business
OPlaces
prosperous communities across the UK
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
212  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  12
• Creating incentives for post-graduate students to research in local institutions (as opposed to 
going overseas where some of the most talented students remain to pursue work or research-
careers); 
• Embedding cross-disciplinary education and research collaboration, including industry-
academy partnerships. 
In order to promote the ‘AI+X’ paradigm where AI researchers work in collaboration with researchers in other 
domains like healthcare, manufacturing, agriculture, etc., India has identified the strategy of co-locating 
inter-disciplinary teams consisting of university research departments, start-ups, social and policy-practitioners 
in working towards solutions-oriented research.
3.2.2  United Kingdom
The UK’s industrial strategy builds on the public consultations that began in February 2017 on the Building our 
Industrial Strategy Green Paper. The final strategy document, Industrial Strategy: Building a Britain Fit for the 
Future was released in November 2017 and forms the blueprint for the UK government’s intervention in the 
economy.
11 
Central to the UK’s industrial strategy is making improvements in the following areas (i.e., five foundations of 
productivity; Figure 5): 
• Ideas and Innovation;
• Worker skills, with an emphasis on young people and enhancing their access to jobs of the future; 
• Infrastructure; 
• Business environment in order to make the UK a destination of choice for starting new businesses;
• Shared prosperity across the UK.
Figure 5:  The five foundations of productivity [UJ _5]
11 United Kingdom 2017, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/
file/664563/industrial-strategy-white-paper-web-ready-version.pdf

Al & Data Economy
We will put the UK at the forefront
of the artificial intelligence and
data revolution
C-0-20)We will become a world
leader in the way people, goods
and services move
Future of Mobility
Clean Growth
We will maximise the advantages
for UK industry from the global
shift to clean growth
Ageing Society
We will harness the power of
innovation to help meet the needs
of an ageing society
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   213
page |  13
Four levers have been identified to drive the targeted improvements as depicted in the figure below in, 
namely: AI and the data economy, environmentally sustainable growth, transportation, and logistics, as well 
as addressing the challenges linked to an aging society (Figure 6).
Figure 6: Levers to drive Targeted Improvements [UJ _6]
This overarching Industrial Strategy has been broken down into ten sector deals for the following sectors: 
Aerospace, Artificial Intelligence, Automotive, Construction, Creative industries, Life sciences, Nuclear, 
Offshore wind, Rail, Tourism. Each of these sector deals has its strategies and targets as part of the UK’s 
industrial strategy. 
Additionally, the British Innovation Principle has placed obligations on all public-sector bodies that the influence 
on innovation as a driver for jobs and growth is assessed alongside any potential risks from technological 
development (ConservativeHome, 2017). The United Kingdom was ranked first in 2017 in the Government 
Readiness Index developed by Oxford Insights. In its efforts to be the leader in Artificial Intelligence, the United 
Kingdom has placed emphasis on the productivity and earning power of its citizens through an industrial 
strategy. 
3.2.3  United States of America
The United States of America published its first National Artificial Intelligence Research and Development 
Strategic Plan in 2016 as a result of the recognition of the vast potential of AI and the need to continue 
its advancement.
12 The plan itself served as a strategic framework for leveraging and further developing 
America’s AI capabilities as well as ensuring that these capabilities are optimally employed in delivering 
prosperity, security, and improved quality of life for their citizens. 
This plan set out several key areas of focus, including
37: 
• Continued long-term interests in AI; 
• Practical strategies for human-AI joint effort; 
• Understanding and tending to the moral, lawful, and cultural ramifications for AI; 
• Ensuring the well-being and security of AI; 
• Developing shared open datasets and situations for AI training and testing; estimating and assessing 
AI advancements through guidelines and benchmarks, and better understanding the Nation’s AI R&D 
workforce needs.
12 United States of America 2019, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/National-AI-Research-and-
Development-Strategic-Plan-2019-Update-June-2019.pdf

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
214  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  14
Recognising the rapid progress and global developments, and the need to keep up with technological 
advancements and evolving landscape, the American Administration initiated an update to the plan in 
2019. The sole focus of the update was AI Research and Development. This updated National AI Research 
and Development Strategic Plan was released in June 2019 as a guide for federal investments in AI Research 
and Development. The update itself was not intended to recommend policy or regulatory frameworks, but 
rather to address the research and development priorities allied to advancement in AI technologies, which 
would then inform policy and regulation. The plan sets out eight key strategies
37:
a) Make long-term financing available to look into AI; 
b) Develop robust strategies for human-AI cooperation; 
c) Understand and address the moral, lawful, and cultural ramifications of AI; 
d) Ensure the well-being and security of AI frameworks; Strategy; 
e) Develop shared open datasets and conditions for AI training and testing; 
f) Measure and assess AI advancements through measures and benchmarks and Strategy 
g) Better comprehend the national AI R&D workforce needs; and 
h) Expand public-private organizations to quicken movements in AI.
The American AI initiative was launched in January 2019, and is guided by five principles
37: 
• Driving innovative achievements, 
• Driving the improvement of proper specialized measures, 
• Training labourers with the aptitudes to create and apply AI innovations, 
• Protecting American qualities including universal freedoms and security and cultivating open trust and 
trust in AI advancements, 
• Protecting US advantages in their advanced position in AI while advancing a worldwide domain that 
supports development.
Other notable developments in the United States of America include the holding of an AI summit for the 
American Industry, featuring of AI in the National Security and National Defence Strategies, and establishment 
of an AI caucus in Congress, introduction of AI-specific Acts pertaining to various implications including 
impacts on labour, economy, trade, rights, international cooperation etc., and presentation of AI-related bills 
at state and local levels.
3.2.4  China
In 2016, China initiated its first of two three-year strategic plans – the first being a Three-year Guidance for 
Internet and Artificial Intelligence plan for 2016-2018, and the second, the Three-Year Action Plan for Promoting 
Development of a New Generation Artificial Intelligence Industry for 2018-2020. In July 2017, China released 
a comprehensive plan to become the leading power in AI by 2030. Several specialised projects have since 
been deployed by the state, including intelligent manufacturing and intelligent next-generation internet.  
The latest plan of China – Three-Year Action Plan for Promoting Development of a New Generation Artificial 
Intelligence Industry – aims to seize their historical advantage in Artificial Intelligence capability, set the global 
development trend for AI globally, and ensure “economic and social development, support national security, 
and promote the overall competitiveness of the country and leapfrog development.”
 13
13   https://flia.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/A-New-Generation-of-Artificial-Intelligence-Development-Plan-1.pdf
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   215
page |  15
The Chinese strategic approach is guided by the principles “of the 18th CPC National Congress, as well as the 
third, fourth, fifth, and sixth plenary sessions of the 18th CPC Central Committee.”  14 The approach includes 
three basic principles:
1. Systematic Layouts: A targeted systematic development strategy characterized by basic research, 
technology development, industrial development, and industry application.
2. Market-oriented: Adherence to rules of the market and firm commitment towards developing a 
competitive advantage. Managing the role of government in the marketplace in terms of planning 
guidance, policy  support, security, “regulation, environmental, construction, ethical regulations and, 
other aspects.”
 15
3. Open Source: Promoting the concept of open source and sharing of the production, research, and 
innovation. Commitment to providing innovative resources on a global scale.
According to China’s strategic plan, the goals are divided into three steps – according to timeframes 2020, 
2025, 2030. The first goal seeks to keep up with the overall technology and application of AI, particularly as 
a growth point in industry. The second goal aims to achieve significant breakthroughs in AI basic theory, with 
world-leading applications thereof in industry thereby assisting with the Country’s industrial upgrading and 
economic transformation. Finally, by 2030, China aims to be a leading innovation centre for AI, intelligent 
society and economy, and at the forefront of the world’s economic powers.
16
3.2.5  Japan
The anchor idea behind Japan’s 4IR strategy, ‘Society 5.0’ is that the economy should become more 
people-centric17. Japan aims to leverage its success in the third industrial revolution, what they refer to as 
the ‘manufacturing of things’ in order to make machines work for people. Their economic outlook is centred 
around human benefit, identifying the following as the goals of transition: 
• Improved healthcare 
• Improved social connection 
• Reduced impacts of geographic isolation 
• Tailored consumption 
The Japan strategy is the product of a collaboration between government, academia, and industry that 
determined that science and technology should be at the centre of the economy. To this end, investment in 
research & development has seen a considerable increase, making technology, chiefly, Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) central, rather than supportive of the national development strategy. Therefore, their vision for the place of 
people in economic production pertains to human beings as producers of cutting-edge technology, wholly 
removed from manual labour.
Japan also intends to invest in the following forms of infrastructure: 
• Smart mobility (self-driving public transport) 
• Smart/ e-government 
• Financial technology (removing cash from society) 
• Smart healthcare 
14   https://flia.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/A-New-Generation-of-Artificial-Intelligence-Development-Plan-1.pdf
15   https://flia.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/A-New-Generation-of-Artificial-Intelligence-Development-Plan-1.pdf
16   https://flia.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/A-New-Generation-of-Artificial-Intelligence-Development-Plan-1.pdf
17   https://www.gov-online.go.jp/cam/ s5/eng/index.html
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
216  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  16
Japan intends to place people at the centre of consumption. Their outlook is about optimising technology for 
the benefit of people.  The jobs that are emphasised are jobs that are at the centre of controlling machines 
i.e., jobs that are founded on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics competencies.  While 
recognising the need to work in STEM fields in the 4IR, Japan also sees it as an opportunity to de-emphasise 
the impact of its aging population by using technology to increase economic productivity. 
3.2.6  Singapore 
Launched by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong in November 2014, Singapore’s Smart Nation initiative was among 
the first country strategies seeking to better harness and incorporate the development and deployment of 
digital and other smart technologies to improve the lives of citizens. Smart Nation can be understood as an 
attempt to harness information and communications technologies, networks, and big data to create tech-
enabled solutions in all domains of society.
18
Smart Nation is not just a sudden technological drive. Instead, it has to be understood historically as the 
culmination of at least four decades of technology-related and ICT-driven master-planning by the island 
nation. The diagram below provides an overview of the policy evolution since the early 1980s. Smart Nation 
comprises three pillars: Digital Economy, Digital Government, and Digital Society. In terms of the economy, 
the government of Singapore aims to digitise industries to improve business efficiency and drive job creation. 
Digital Government refers to using data, connectivity, and computing to inform and transform the services 
provided to citizens and businesses. Also, the Digital Government is intended to unlock the productivity and 
efficiency of civil servants while automating some functions to “provide a personal touch in a way that 
enriches the citizen’s experience.” In moving towards Digital Government, the government of Singapore has 
prioritised making all government departments digitally-enabled workplaces and has invested in creating a 
digitally-competent workforce
For the latter, the government has set a target of training 20,000 government employees (approximately 14% 
of the total number of civil servants) in data science and data analytics while all civil servants will be required 
to have a basic level of digital literacy. By 2023, all government ministries and agencies will be necessary to 
have one Artificial Intelligence (AI) project underway for either service delivery or for policy development. The 
Digital Government Blueprint outlines a five-year roadmap for the Singapore government to harness digital 
technologies towards these service ends.
At the societal level, Digital Society articulates the government’s mission to foster digital inclusion, ensuring 
all Singaporeans have access to technology that can enhance their everyday lives. In addition, through its 
emphasis on digital inclusion, the government has prioritised equipping its citizens with digital literacy and the 
capacity to use technology safely. At the heart of Digital Society is the desire to ensure that all Singaporeans
19: 
• can maximise the opportunities of a digital society; 
• improve their lives; 
• become and remain connected to the world; and 
• have an equal chance to succeed.
The discussion will now provide snippets of the following courtier’s strategies; Mexico, Malaysia, Kenya, 
Australia, Canada, Russia, and Tunisia.
18   https://www.nrf.gov.sg/programmes/artificial-intelligence-r-d-programme
19 https://www.nrf.gov.sg/programmes/artificial-intelligence-r-d-programme
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   217
page |  17
3.2.7  Mexico
Mexico published a white paper towards developing an AI strategy in 2018. A notable feature of Mexico’s 
approach is the use of making a Google sheet of the report available online for public comment20.
3.2.8  Malaysia
Malaysia has developed its Industry 4WRD strategic plan for the Digital transformation of manufacturing with 
the aim of improving manufacturing efficiency and productivity to drive economic growth.21
3.2.9  Kenya
The Kenyan government established a task force in 2018 to recommend to the government on harnessing 
Blockchain and AI technologies over the next five years. Some examples of the application areas of interest 
include public service delivery, cybersecurity, financial inclusion, and election processes.
22
3.2.10  Australia
The Australian government has already committed close to $30 million in 2018-2019 towards enhancing the 
country’s AI efforts, including the development of a national AI Ethics Framework, technology roadmap and 
set of standards. The Australian Government also released an innovation and science agenda that notably 
commits plans of the Government to lead by example through embracing innovation and technology. The 
agenda has set out several comprehensive initiatives ranging from attraction of talent to reformed funding 
arrangements for university research.
23
3.2.11  Canada
The Canadian Government made an early roll-out of and investment in its AI strategy in 2017. A coordinated 
group of AI research and development institutes has been established.24
3.2.12  Russia
In January 2019, the Russian Government was instructed to develop a national AI strategy. However, several 
initiatives about AI development had already been effected in 2018.25
3.2.13  Tunisia
Tunisia is currently developing a national strategy on AI. A task force was established in 2018.
3.3  LESSONS FOR SOUTH AFRICA
Some critical learnings for South Africa from these country cases can be summarised as follows:
1. 4IR strategy based on and responds to service delivery challenges as well a social and human 
development / wellbeing priorities.
2. A high-level inter-departmental / inter-ministerial, multi-stakeholder governance, and coordination 
structure should be the custodian of the 4IR strategy.
20  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Lq4o7_MXzRh6wBeIoRSVdAAB867MwdZqTvm7MmMyz4s/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs
21 http://www.mpc.gov.my/industry4wrd/
22 https://futureoflife.org/ai-policy-kenya/
23   https://www.industry.gov.au/strategies-for-the-future/boosting-innovation-and-science
24   https://www.cifar.ca/ai/pan-canadian-artificial-intelligence-strategy
25   https://futureoflife.org/ai-policy-russia/
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
218  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  18
3. A focus on Regulation, Ethics, and Cultural aspects of the internet is key not only to create an enabling 
policy environment to support firms and government but to ensure ethical and transparent use of these 
new technologies (for example, Japan’s High-Level Expert Group on Artificial Intelligence (AI HLEG), 
“Draft Ethics Guidelines for Trustworthy AI”).
4. Malaysia’s Industry4WRD Readiness Assessment Guidelines (assess industry’s state of readiness for 4IR) 
is a useful tool to determine the baseline of technological capabilities. Based on these assessments, 
a) Firms can develop a roadmap to transition to greater use of (and possibly development) of 4IR 
technologies. South Africa’s Sector Education and Training Authorities (SETA’s) can be one of the 
institutional mechanisms that support and collect (and collate) sectoral assessments. 
b) The government can formulate strategies and policy instruments (regulation, tax incentives, and 
infrastructure development) to support firms. 
c) A Government 4IR Readiness instrument should also be developed to help determine how 
government departments can incorporate technology to improve their overall service delivery.
5. The strategy must leverage and harness capabilities in the private sector to find scalable and profitable 
solutions that simultaneously unlock social and economic value. Society at large can also play a role 
in contributing to 4IR-driven social and human development (see, for example, Malaysia’s citizens’ 
contributions to the wellbeing of the aged).
6. All three countries have an emphasis on employee capacity development and reskilling to enhance 
their chances of transitioning into the jobs of the future.
a) South Africa already has a skills landscape (the Sector Education and Training Authorities (SETAs) 
and the National Skills Levy that can be leveraged to drive 4IR-related skills development.
b) While this is necessary for South Africa as well, the country’s high unemployment requires a 
strategy that focuses on those who are neither in employment nor in education (NEETs) as well.
c) Another key aspect of capacity development relates to educational and curriculum reform. 
Some innovative approaches to consider include Japan’s shift away from “pass or fail in a 
grade” to subject-specific progression. This means that students can progress in some subjects 
while remaining “behind” in others in order to improve and get to the required level of subject 
proficiency.
d) Removing subject and discipline boundaries in favour of inter-disciplinarity to encourage 
complex thinking.
Additionally, to the above, there are a number of digitization risks that could face South Africa, included 
amongst others are the following:
• The digitization of government strategies, while necessary and warranted, nonetheless poses 
cybersecurity risks and the threat of large privacy breaches by both the state as well as by other entities.
• Digitisation also increases the surveillance capacity of the government and firms in ever more areas 
of individuals’ lives.
6
5,4
20072008
1,5
20102011 20122013
1,8
2014
1,2
2015
04
En
2016
1,4
2017
0,8
2018
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   219
page |  19
CHAPTER FOUR: South Africa 
4.1  INTRODUCTION
Technologies of the fourth industrial revolution are already impacting different economies globally. South 
Africa is not immune to this trend. There are vast opportunities available for South Africa to exploit if resources 
are effectively allocated and utilised through a well-defined strategy. 
Governments spearheading 4IR strategic planning have typically restructured the state to place science, 
technology, and higher education at the centre of the state, along-side such central functions as fiscal 
management/national treasury.
The specific failures of Structural Adjustment Programs (SAPs), which regressed much of Sub-Saharan Africa’s 
post-colonial socio-economic gains, make it clear that economics alone cannot be trusted to solve 
development problems. It also suggests that Development cannot be articulated and addressed through 
the lens of any discipline that offers a cure-all. Similarly, as the 4IR rises in stature as the conceptual lens 
through which to understand the future, it remains essential to understand its outputs, robotics, and artificial 
intelligence, as examples, not as panaceas but as optional pieces to a broader puzzle about South Africa’s 
progress.
To this end it is prudent to provide an overview of the South African economy so as to position the various 4IR 
technologies in order to progress South Africa as a country globally.
4.2  SOUTH AFRICAN ECONOMY
The GDP of South Africa was worth 366.30 billion US dollars in 2018 per the World Economic Forum data. South 
Africa reached an all-time high of GPD in 2011 at 416.42 USD Billion. However, if a comparison of year on year 
is performed of GDP growth the South African economy has seen a steady decline in GDP growth with 2009 
experiencing negative growth. The graph below (Figure 7) provides a graphical representation of the South 
African economy from 2007 to 2018.
Figure 7: GPD Growth (Annual %)
Source: World Economic Forum

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
220  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  20
The post-apartheid period (1994 -1999) had seen an inflow Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) that had driven 
growth in South Africa. 2 This FDI investment facilitated construction and infrastructure development that lead 
to higher GDP Growth. During the period 2000 – 2008 there was strong demand for commodities lead by 
China that had facilitated higher GDP Growth.
2 In 2009, the Global financial crisis had an effect on South 
African GDP and thus the negative growth.2  For the period 2010- 2018 fluctuations in commodity prices had 
added to South Africa’s low GDP Growth.2 The economy was not diversified sufficiently to counter the effect 
of commodity fluctuations and thus the GDP growth is has steadily declined.2
South Africa’s economic growth for 2019 was revised to 1.5% from an estimated 1.7% in 2018. The weaker 
economic growth is due to slow improvement in the production and employment segments of the country. 
However, in the medium-term outlook for 2021, it is estimated to increase to 2.1% due to better confidence 
in public infrastructure spending and a better commodity price outlook
2626 Furthermore, within the long-term 
it will be essential for South Africa to reduce unemployment and increase the GDP growth. Additionally, this 
would lead to raising the necessary revenues for social and economic developments. These developments 
will have a positive impact on the much-needed structural reforms within South Africa. These structural reforms 
could include the following but are not limited to
2727, 
• Increased access to advanced education; 
• A more grounded and reasonable work showcase; 
• Greater interest in provincial markets; 
• A condition for business people and independent ventures to flourish.
These structural reforms will have an impact on the South African economy. The structural changes mentioned 
above will benefit from clear policies within government to boost economic growth and reduce the exclusion 
of many South Africans from economic participation. The policies that the government provides to aid these 
structural reforms will be the backbone for economic growth. It is at this point in time where the South African 
government needs to be cognisant of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and how this revolution, through policy 
creation and a clear coordinated strategy, can aid inclusive economic growth in South Africa.
Before this discussion provides insight into how policies, coupled with the Fourth Industrial revolution could add 
value to economic growth, it is essential that pertinent points of the South African economy, are understood. 
The figure below provides a summary of key points about the South African economy.
Furthermore, an understanding of the economy from both a positive and negative reference is required. The 
discussion below provides insight into the critical strengths and weaknesses of the South African economy. It is 
in this context that South Africa can identify how the Fourth Industrial Revolution can be incorporated to either 
build onto existing strengths or aid in correcting the weaknesses of the South African economy. 
4.2.1  Strengths
a) South Africa is a wealthy country with regard to natural resources (gold, platinum, coal, chromium) 
(Figure 8). The extraction of these resources could stimulate economic growth in South Africa.
12
b)  Secondly, South Africa is a regional/continental economic and political powerhouse. This allows 
South Africa to provide policy and decision making on key strategic objectives in the region.12
c) Thirdly, South Africa’s financial services sector is a mature, developed sector of the economy. This 
sector is backed by a sound regulatory and legal framework. There are several local and foreign 
institutions that form part of this sector.
12
26 http://www.treasury.gov.za/documents/national%20budget/2019/review/Chapter%202.pdf;  https://data.worldbank.org/
indicator/NY.GDP .MKTP .KD.ZG?locations=ZA
27 https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2019/06/03/pr19191-south-africa-imf-staff-concludes-visit-to-south-africa
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
o
Global Competitive index
South AfricaKenyaNigeria
20182017116
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   221
page |  21
Figure 8: Assessment of the South African Economy
4.2.2  Weaknesses
a) One of the critical weaknesses of the South African economy is the decline in its competitiveness 
globally. “A country’s economic competitiveness measures its ability to efficiently produce and trade 
goods and services.” 
28 South Africa, compared to other African nations has slowly declined as shown 
in the diagram below (Figure 9). A higher ranking is an indication of poor performance. Kenya, for 
example, had implemented e-visa, and this has promoted tourism to assist their ranking. 
Figure 9: Global Competitiveness Index
Source: World Economic Forum [UJ_1] 
28 World Economic Forum, 2018, The Global Competitiveness Report 2018. Online available at http://www3.weforum.org/docs/
GCR2018/05FullReport/TheGlobalCompetitivenessReport2018.pdf
01 02 03 04 05
06 07 08 09 10
South Africa is a 
relatively youthful 
country. Of the 
approximately 57 million 
South Africans, the 
median age is 26 years 
of age. Historically a 
relatively low median 
population age would be 
characterised as a 
demographic dividend 
with potential long-term 
benefits for the 
country’s productivity 
and economic growth.
In terms of the country’s 
sex profile, women 
constitute just over half 
(51%) the total 
population.
The country continues 
to experience significant 
internal migration, with 
nearly two-thirds of all 
South Africans living in 
urban areas. This trend 
is set to continue into 
the foreseeable future. 
The failure to plan for 
and adequately provide 
social and economic 
services linked to 
urbanisation poses a 
critical challenge for 
improving human 
wellbeing.
Although the income 
disparity between 
ethnicities has narrowed 
with the emergence of 
the Black middle class, 
income disparities 
among Black South 
Africans have increased 
requiring new policy and 
other structural 
instruments for 
addressing the widening 
gap.
Thus, despite 
improvements in South 
Africa’s overall HDI 
since 1990, currently 
pegged at 0.699, 
disaggregating the 
overall HDI by its 
component indices 
(education, life 
expectancy, and Gross 
National Income (GNI) 
per capita), illustrates a 
trajectory that has been 
volatile in terms of life 
expectancy.
In terms of the World 
Economic Forum 
Competitiveness 
Ranking, South Africa is 
67th, out of 140 
countries, 5 places 
down from its 2017 
place.
Whilst the National 
Development Plan 
(NDP) envisages 
aggregate growth of 
5.5%, the highest 
growing sector between 
2010 and 2018 has 
been Finance at 2.6%. 
This indicates that all 
sectors are 
under-performing 
relative to the growth 
targets necessary to 
respond to SA;s 
development 
challenges.
Domestic workers are 
the largest employment 
group in South Africa. 
To this end, the largest 
employment sectors in 
South Africa are Private 
Households and 
Community Services.
Regression in the 
Water and Energy 
sector is the 
single-biggest threat 
to South Africa - both 
in respect of 
human development 
and 
economic growth.
The Structure of 
SA’s economy has 
changed dramatically 
over the past 
2 decades with 
historical anchor 
sectors such as 
mining and energy, 
reducing in terms of 
their aggregate 
contribution to GDP 
as well as their 
average growth rate 
over time.

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
222  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  22
b)  Another critical weakness that is evident in the South African economy is the ease of doing business in 
South Africa- identified as one of the critical elements to ensure economic growth for a country. The 
ease of doing business measures the ability among the cost, time, and procedures to start a business, 
dealing with construction permits, getting electricity, registering property, getting credit, paying taxes, 
ease of export and import, enforcing contracts, and resolving insolvency.
29
c) A key driver for economic reform is electricity. South Africa has an aging infrastructure producing and 
providing this electricity to businesses and citizens. This aging infrastructure has an impact on economic 
growth. This is evident by a World Bank report that places South Africa lower than other African countries 
such as Namibia, Kenya, on the variable of “getting electricity.” Furthermore, this variable has an impact 
on a social level for many South Africans
30.
d) The inequalities evident in the South African economy due to the legacy of apartheid has led to a high 
level of poverty in the country. South Africa has a dual economy: “on the one hand it is a small high-
skilled, high-productivity economy and on the other hand, a large low-skilled, low-productivity one”
9. 
This has an impact on the socio-economic problems that face South Africa.
e) The inequalities in the South African economy, coupled with the weakness in its economic “growth has 
resulted in high unemployment rates in the country.”
 31 These high unemployment rates have added to 
the strain on the economy.32
f) Coupled with the high unemployment, another weakness for economic growth is shortages in the 
skilled labour force that could aid economic reforms.
12
From the discussion above, with regard to the weaknesses and strengths of the South African economy, the 
fourth industrial revolution can aid in the following instances. Firstly, the Fourth Industrial Revolution can assist 
the country in increasing its ability to efficiently produce and trade goods and services. This would increase the 
competitiveness of the country globally. Secondly, the Fourth Industrial Revolution can be used to enhance 
certain aspects of the ease of doing business in the country, such as getting electricity, registering property 
and starting a business. Thirdly, the Fourth Industrial Revolution can build onto a robust financial services sector 
to aid economic reform. Lastly, The Fourth Industrial Revolution can assist in the commercialisation sector of 
the country, through using tools that allow for faster innovation commercialisation.
The opportunities presented by the Fourth Industrial Revolution as shared above can assist in economic, 
social, industrial, and commercial reform in South Africa. Identifying international strategies with regard to the 
Fourth Industrial Revolution will also be a source of insight for South Africa.
The various major sectors of the South African economy will be discussed below with insight  provided to the 
benefit that could be achieved through 4IR implantation.
4.2.3  Mining
The mining industry could benefit immensely from the digital migration that the Fourth Industrial Revolution 
will bring, which could have a positive impact on the country’s ability to efficiently produce and trade goods. 
The mining industry contributes over 18%, directly and indirectly, to the GDP of South Africa. Mining will be 
an essential sector for the South African economy. The continuation of this industry will lie in its ability to self-
sustain. The modernisation of mines will have an impact on processes, skill sets, social, and environmental 
aspects within the mining industry.
29 World Bank Group, 2019, Doing Business Report. Online available at https://www.doingbusiness.org/content/dam/doingBusiness/
media/Annual-Reports/English/DB2019-report_web-version.pdf
30 World Bank Group,2019, Doing Business, Online available at https://www.doingbusiness.org/en/data/exploretopics/getting-
electricity
31 Coface for tarde,2019, Online available at https://www.coface.com/Economic-Studies-and-Country-Risks/South-Africa
32 Coface for tarde,2019, Online available at https://www.coface.com/Economic-Studies-and-Country-Risks/South-Africa
Automation, robotics and operational hardware
Deploying digitally enabled hardware tools to perform or improve activities
that have traditionally been carried out manually or with human -controlled
machinery Key initiatives in scope are sensors, robots and 3D printing.
Digitally enabled workforce
Using connected mobility, and virtual and augmented reality to empower field,
remote and centralized workers in real time. Key initiatives in scope are
connected workers and remote operating centres.
Integrated enterprise, platforms and ecosystems
Linking operations, IT layers and devices or systems that are currently
separate. Key initiatives in scope are information technology (IT) and
operational technology (0T) integration, asset cybersecurity and integrated
sourcing, data exchange and commerce.
Next -generation analytics and decision support
Leveraging algorithms and artificial intelligence to process data from sources
within and beyond the traditional value chain to provide real -time decision
support and future projections. Key initiatives in scope are advanced
analytics, simulation modelling and artificial intelligence.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   223
page |  23
Some of the significant technologies that are used in the mining sector are provided in the diagram below 
(Figure 10). These technologies are used to increase efficiency in production and aid the social impacts of 
mining through worker safety, and the impact mining has on the environment.
Figure 10: Significant Technologies for Mining
Source: World Economic Forum [UJ_ 2]
Previously, machines had limited autonomy and only carried out specific tasks with a human guiding the 
process.
33 However, with the use of 4IR technologies, today’s machines can carry out tasks over extended 
periods of time with very little human intervention. These technologies include; robotic trucks, trains and 
diggers, autonomous stockpile management; automated exploration drones; autonomous robots for 
recovery of recycling material, and pit drones.
12 These technologies can learn new ways of performing tasks 
and gather information for miners in potentially dangerous situations. Additionally, creating a digitally enabled 
workforce in the mining industry will add tremendous value to efficiently produce goods
34. Lastly, there is 
untapped data from mining companies that could add value to the economy. This comes in the form of 
structured and unstructured data. Advanced analytics with algorithms could assist mining companies in 
making better and faster decisions that are more accurate.
12 This data can also support the sector in better 
understanding and predicting the impact of their activities and approaches on the environment, enabling 
better decision making.
33 World Economic Forum ,2018 ,Shaping the Sustainability of Production Systems: Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies for 
competitiveness and sustainable growth Online available at: http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Shaping_the_Sustainability_
Production_Systems.pdf
34 World economic Forum,2019, Mining and metals https://www.weforum.org/agenda/archive/mining-and-metals/

Automotive (9)2-
Snort bop recycling
8&o - based plastics and
compostes
Robotic disassembly tor
redwrtufactumg
Gobotcs 2.0
Meta 3D punting
t3lockchan
Augmented worktpce
Smart digital twns
Smart
warehousing
Electronics (8)[1r.
Green electronic. rt,r
Autonomous disassembly
Semicond,ctor Fab 4.0
Advanced green packaging
Dgital traceatArty of minerals
Advanced electronic design
a-tomatan
3D anted erectronrs
Naar -oark lactones
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
224  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  24
4.2.4  Agriculture
The agriculture sector has four critical elements, as noted by the World Economic Forum that would need 
to be addressed to produce efficiency and at the same time promote trade. These four elements are 
as follows: “1) Inclusiveness, ensuring economic and social inclusion for all food systems actors, including 
smallholder farms, women and youth 2) Sustainable, minimising negative environmental impacts, conserving 
scarce natural resources, 3) Efficient producing adequate quantities of nutritious and healthy foods for global 
needs while minimizing loss and waste 4) Nutritious and healthy produce to aid in providing and promoting 
the consumption of diverse nutritious and safe foods for a healthy diet.”
35
 A few of the technologies that could have an impact on these points that the government could consider 
in policy implementation include using mobile service delivery to small-farm holders or precision agriculture 
for input and water use optimisation. South Africa has a long history of Agriculture, and the 4IR presents 
opportunities to leverage this experience to increase yield and raise exports globally.
4.2.5  Manufacturing
According to the Indian government, manufacturing will be one of the largest sectors to be impacted by the 
fourth industrial revolution (Figure 11). One of the recommendations provided to the Indian government with 
regard to the manufacturing industry is to create specific industry guidelines with regard to privacy, security, 
and ethics due to the use of the Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies
36. The World Economic Forum 
has observed that the following technologies will have an impact on the manufacturing industry-specific to 
automotive and electronics.
37
Figure 11: Significant Technologies for Manufacturing
Source: World Economic Forum23
The South African manufacturing sector has been 
shrinking due to global alternatives at lower costs. The 
use of 4IR technologies can aid in driving prices down 
in this sector to improve global competitiveness and/
or the identification of niche manufacturing areas 
where South Africa can compete.
4.2.6  Financial Services Sector
The next sector that has an impact on the South African 
economy and will impact the pace of industrialisation 
is the financial services sector. Even though this sector 
is robust and one of the strengths of South Africa, the 
4IR will and is already playing a role in this sector. The 
World Economic Forum has identified the following 
areas set to impact the Financial Services Sector 
(Figure 12).
35 World Economic Forum ,2018 ,Shaping the Sustainability of Production Systems: Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies for 
competitiveness and sustainable growth Online available at: http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Shaping_the_Sustainability_
Production_Systems.pdf
36 National Strategy for Artificial Intelligence, Online available at https://niti.gov.in/writereaddata/files/document_publication/
NationalStrategy-for-AI-Discussion-Paper.pdf
37 World economic Forum,2019, A New Era of Manufacturing in the Fourth Industrial Revolution: http://www3.weforum.org/docs/
WEF_The_New_Era_of_Manufacturing_in_the_Fourth_Industrial_Revolution.pdf

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   225
page |  25
Figure 12: Financial Services Impact Areas
Source: World Economic Forum [UJ _3]
The South African Financial Services sector continues to contribute substantially to the country’s GDP . However, 
there are continuous disruptions in this sector, fuelled by 4IR technologies and business models, which have 
resulted in a large number of job losses. 
This sector is also vital in enabling, through funding, the development or growth of critical sectors aligned 
to 4IR opportunities. 4IR and its different business models require, at times, more innovative financing and 
capital solutions that do not rely solely on the traditional risk management and measurement frameworks that 
have and continue to exist in previous industrial revolutions.
The figure below (Figure 13) compares the GDP of the different BRICS nations, and Nigeria (another major 
economy in Sub-Saharan Africa), over the last few decades. South Africa shows muted GDP growth against 
these peers and is challenged to leverage the 4IR to drive growth in its key sectors (Figure 14).
Payments Insurance
Deposits & Lending
Capital Raising
Investment Management
Market Provisioning
Automation of 
High-Value 
Activities
Streamlined
Infrastructure
Niche, 
Specialised 
Products
Customer
Empowerment
Reduced
Intermediation
Strategic Role
of Data
Sharing
Economy
Autonomous 
Vehicles
Digital 
Distribution
Securitization 
and Hedge 
Funds
Internet of 
Things
Advanced 
Sensors
Wearsome 
Computers
P2P Lending
Alternative 
Adjudication
Virtual 
Technologies
Mobile 3G
Third-Party 
API
Virtual Exchanges 
& Smart Contracts
Crowdfunding
Alternative Due 
Diligence
Automated Advice 
& Management
Social
Trading
Retail Algorithmic 
Trading
Advanced 
AlgorithmsCloud 
Computing
Capacity
Sharing
Open Source
Market Information 
Platforms
Automated Data 
Collection & Analysis
Artificial 
Intelligence / 
Machine 
Learning
Machine 
Readable News
Streamlined 
Payments
Integrated 
Billing Mobile
Payments
Social Sentiment
Big Data
Crypto
Currency
P2P FX
Mobile Money
Alternative
Lending
Platforms
Shifting
Customer
Preferences
Connected World
Disaggregating Forces
Alternative
Capital Raising
Platforms
Next
Generation
of Process
Externalisation
Empowered
Investors
Connecting
Buyers and Sellers
Smarter, Faster
Machines
Cashless World
Non-Traditional
Payment Schemes

GDP (current US$)
World Bank national accounts data and OECO National Accounts data files
Inda
Brazil
Russo Federation
South Africa
Nigeria
2010 -2018 GDP Contribution/ Sector 
3% 8% 14% 
00 
Agriculture, forestry Mining and quarrying Manufacturing 
and fishing 
9% 22% 17% 
'fil ouo 
2% 
Electricity, gas 
and water 
6% 
15% 
and accommodation 
Transport, storage Finance, real estate and General government Personal services Construction 
and communication business services services 
3%14%2%15%
9%22%17%
o-o
4%
G'
(13\°`1.-1 \°`1.-1i 1
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
226  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  26
Figure 13: GPD (current US$) 
Source: World Bank and OECO
Figure 14: An overview of the GDP per the various sectors in South Africa
Source: Statistics South Africa

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   227
page |  27
In South Africa, the largest sector by GDP contribution is Finance, Real Estate, and Business Services. 
Government services; Trade & Accommodation and Manufacturing sectors are the next largest sectors. The 
smallest sector by GDP contribution is Electricity, Gas, and Water. Agriculture, forestry, and fishing; Construction 
and Personal Services also contribute under 5% each to the total GDP . 
There is a necessity to look at all these contributing sectors with a 4IR lens, to understand the likely growth 
and relevance of these sectors in the global 4IR context. In addition, South Africa would need to assess 
strengths and opportunities it possesses to position itself for growth in key industries and growth in its local and 
international contribution to 4IR focus sectors. More of this is unpacked in section 9 of this report.
4.2.7  Commercialisation
Commercialisation is the process of bringing new products or services to market, moving technology or 
a product/service from concept to the marketplace. It entails production, distribution, marketing, sales, 
customer support, and other vital functions critical to achieving the commercial success of the new product 
or service.
Funding is a crucial driver of commercialisation and is usually obtained through the following strategies: 
licensing with development funds, leveraging strategic alliances for funding, obtaining equity investors in the 
parent company, obtaining equity investment in a spin-off or an Initial Public Offering (IPO).
Commercialisation if implemented incorrectly, will lead to a few in the industry holding the rights over others. 
This will lead to increased disparity in the socio-economic situation of the country. This will ultimately lead to 
many in the country not benefiting from innovations created.
All of the points discussed have risks associated with the use of the various technologies. A few of the risks are 
elaborated in the points to follow. 
4.2.8  Risks
A Few risks that need to be addressed by the policy of the government are stated below.
38
a) The expansion of AI depends on consumers been adequately educated on how to use various 
technologies.
b) The cost of production of various components and final AI technologies need to decrease. This 
will be achieved through mass production.
c) If data used to inform decision-making is inaccurate, this could cause harm to various individuals 
or institutions.
d) Tremendous computing power is required to run systems such as blockchain, which could be 
costly.
e) Data ownership could provide unfair advantages to specific individuals or companies.
f) If the IP only remains with a few, this will create new monopolies in the economy and could have 
an impact on benefiting the broader population.
38 World Economic Forum ,2018 ,Shaping the Sustainability of Production Systems: Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies for 
competitiveness and sustainable growth Online available at: http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Shaping_the_Sustainability_
Production_Systems.pdf
OverallEnabling
ScoreEnvironment
11:
00
67th69tH64thBSin
A
Human Innovation
CaptalMarketsEcosystem
rrr0000042
5711,ihm84tn7411155tht 6fh35th56th.ltlt
.nnwaasa
talpWüly
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
228  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  28
4.3  SOUTH AFRICAN KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OVERVIEW 
The figure below provides insight into the current state of South Africa’s key performance areas ranked out of 
140 countries globally (Figure 15).
According to the given indicators, the worst-performing indicators of the South African economy are Health, 
Innovation and ICT adoption. Also, below the 60 levels are Skills, Institutions and Product Market. Based on this 
evaluation, SA’s priorities in respect to the 4IR and attendant economic competitiveness ought to be human 
capital development as well as the deployment of technology infrastructure and ICT. These two aspects are 
co-related, requiring simultaneous investment to produce the desired outcome. Given the urgency of SA’s 
development challenges, radical shifts are necessary to achieve tangible changes that are in step with the 
global community.
4.4  CONCLUSION – SOUTH AFRICA 
A key strategy for South Africa is to ensure the preparation of the younger generation for jobs of the future that 
may not exist at this moment in time. The starting point of this preparation is a review of the curriculum of our 
schools. This curricular would need to be aligned to the Fourth Industrial Revolution with topics such as Machine 
Learning.
Figure 15: Key Performance Areas for South Africa
39
Robotics, and Artificial Intelligence, etc. Through the process of upskilling youth about the Fourth Industrial 
Revolution it will ensure South Africa will have the necessary skills for the future and thus not required to 
obtain these skills from outside countries. Furthermore, the youth could use these skills gained to follow 
an entrepreneurial path that would allow them to be job providers and not job seekers. This will add an 
advantage to the South African economy. Within higher education, new technologies need to be brought 
into the curriculum. Furthermore, multi-disciplinary qualifications should be developed that incorporate 
various aspects of the fourth industrial revolution by higher education institutions.
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) is an important aspect to enable the Fourth Industrial 
39   http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_TheGlobalCompetitivenessReport2019.pdf

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   229
page |  29
Revolution. Thus, affordable broadband available to all citizens that live in the Republic of South Africa. 
Additionally, for South Africa to become an active participant in the Fourth Industrial Revolution requires 
home-grown inventions and knowledge production. This will require investments in research and innovations. 
Furthermore, these home-grown inventions will aid the economy as well as promote inclusive growth. Another 
aspect to consider is to empower the current workforce for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. This can be 
achieved by creating continuous education programs for various sectors of the economy. Lastly, Small Micro 
and Medium Enterprises (SMME’s) must be enabled in the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
R ECO NSTRUCT1ON AND DEVELOPMENT
(RD
naa INtUreJkey YMm:
Nee. ne01e ew
Weaavaeee:
e°a
ACCELERATED AND SHARED GROWTH
INITIATIVE FOR SOUTH CASGISA)
f ^
-§
Daca minated:
aSuengkc_
Key ideas:
Weaknewe^.
S,taarrnaan late earn arAIN,nwamam.am+n.^.a
pAA. la mac nate.ál
z á
1=j wte intoawa:
20:3
Kt./ Idea:
rtnnenoni moo Osman -.-- `0,rInem. *lb
ummienwont
() S4enNlte.:WeaMneleef:
0.0.n.,
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
230  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  30
CHAPTER FIVE: Assessment Of South Africa:  
Current Status Quo
5.1  SOUTH AFRICAN POLICY FRAMEWORKS 1994- DATE
Throughout human history, the search for human wellbeing has been an enduring and foundational concern. 
In response to this fundamental human conundrum, in 2013, South Africans articulated a development 
vision, Vision 2030, encapsulated in the National Development Plan (NDP) as the latest iteration in the 
continuing quest to ensure security and welfare for all. Explicitly aimed at removing the triple scourge of 
poverty, inequality, and unemployment by 2030, Vision 2030 recognised that the country’s socio-economic 
transformation is central to entrenching a vibrant democracy in which all South Africans can meaningfully 
and actively participate.
Since 1994, the state has actively engaged in the design of policies aimed at addressing South Africa’s 
historical legacy of an excluded and under-served majority. It has also sought to have an over-arching policy 
framework that gives direction to all facets of the state and attendant programmes.
Given a constantly evolving local and global context, these policies have been adapted over time to 
emphasise themes requiring critical attention. Below (Figures 16a-e) is an outline of the emphasis of each of 
the key over-arching policy frameworks that have been implemented since 1994.
Figure 16: Key Policy Frameworks for South Africa

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   231
page |  31
5.2  SOUTH AFRICA TODAY: SOCIO-ECONOMIC AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT OVERVIEW
The work of contemplating the socio-economic impact of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) is principally 
about contemplating South Africa’s development trajectory historically and, most importantly, prospectively. 
Having outlined the various post-apartheid macro-strategic policy statements through which the government 
has pursued the vision of a better life for all South Africans, we now paint a picture of South Africa’s current 
socio-economic situation, which is, in part, the outcome of the government’s post-apartheid strategies and 
investments in enhancing the capabilities of its citizenry. Indeed, it is worth stating that the concerns at the 
heart of this project are not explicitly, the technological artefacts; the digital systems or even the transformation 
of bio-physical realities. Instead, this exercise seeks to respond to fundamental concerns, which predate and 
will outlive the details of the 4IR: namely, South Africa’s economic competitiveness and the wellbeing of its 
people. To this end, the following section outlines the country’s social and human development profile. 
The approach taken in painting a portrait of South Africa today is one that recognises that the economy is 
embedded in, is shaped by, and in turn shapes the social world that characterises South Africa, the experiences 
of its citizens, and their material and well- or ill being. To be precise, society and the economy are connected 
at the level of human experience. It is, in essence, this human experience and reality that is outlined in what 
follows. A broad overview of social and human development indicators in South Africa between 2002 and 
2018, this segment of the report is based on data from StatsSA; the Department of Planning, Monitoring, and 
Evaluation (DPME), which is located in the Presidency; and from the United Nations’ (UN) Human Development 
Index (UN-HDI) (2018)
40.
The United Nations (UN) Human Development Index (HDI) reports, in conjunction with the UN’s 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), represent the global framework for ranking UN member states’ performance in 
terms of human development. In terms of their relationship, the SDGs can be understood as the priority areas 
of intervention to drive economic development in tandem with improved human development. Thus, while 
the HDI, a composite statistical index, is an instrument for measuring performance on human development, 
the SDG’s identify priority levers towards economic security and human welfare. For more details on the 
technical specification and computation of the Index, refer to the Technical Notes on Human Development 
Indices and Indicators: 2018 Statistical Update
41.  
The HDI is the result of the UN’s computation of three development factors, namely:
• Economic, 
• Social and 
• Demographic.
It provides a comparative snapshot of individual country performance in human wellbeing while also 
indicating the level of global convergence or divergence in human development outcomes. 
As a statistic composite index (Stanton, 2007), the HDI can be disaggregated into thirteen (13) broad 
indicators that can be classified in terms of four overarching categories (Figure 17): Demographic profile; 
Human Capability and Wellbeing; Economic / Material Conditions; and the Natural Environment. In turn, 
each of these broad indicators can be further disaggregated into a further ten or more sub-indicators. For 
instance, under the overarching category of Human Capability and Wellbeing is nested indicators pertaining 
to a country’s educational performance, the population’s health status, and human security.
40   http://hdr.undp.org/sites/default/files/2018_human_development_statistical_update.pdf
41   http://hdr.undp.org/en/content/human-development-index-hdi
L
Total ropulatlon
- Age Dependency Redo%
- Urbanisation
Human
Capability &
Wellbeing
Economic
Material
Conditions
-Educolbn
- Health
Moóiiry and Communication
Human Security
carne / RewusuesCuntuwllWn
Inequality
Employment,
- Carbon Uronde Emrsaons Per Coprto
/5
65
,
6
90'96'00'06
Year
10'15 17
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
232  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  32
Figure 17: HDI Categories42
The highest HDI possible is 1.0, or 100% (Norway: 0.955, Australia: 0.938, US: 0.937, Netherlands: 0.921, 
Germany: 0.92, South Africa: 0.699) South Africa’s 2017 HDI of 0.699 is above the average of 0.645 for 
countries in the medium human development group (UN-HDI, 2018). 
 When compared to countries whose HDI ranking was at a similar level in 1990 (i.e., Gabon and Mauritius), 
South Africa’s performance human developmentally is markedly lower (when compared to Mauritius) and 
at around the same level as Gabon despite South Africa having a much higher GDP of $742,6billion (2017) 
compared to Gabon’s $34,45billion in the same year (calculated in terms of purchasing power parity (PPP)) 
(United Nations Development Programme , 2018) (Figure 18).
43
Figure 18: HDI Comparisons44 
42   http://www.hdr.undp.org/en/2019-report
43   http://hdr.undp.org/sites/all/themes/hdr_theme/country-notes/ZAF.pdf
44   http://www.hdr.undp.org/en/2019-report

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   233
page |  33
Within Sub-Saharan Africa, countries which are close to South Africa’s 2017 HDI rank of 113, and which have a 
comparable population size are Congo and Namibia, which have HDIs ranked 137 (with an HDI 0.606) and 
129 (with an HDI of 0.647) respectively. Nevertheless, these countries have a significantly lower GNP per capita 
and far less social protection measures (Ibid.).
When benchmarked against Brazil, Russia, India, China (BRICS) between 1980 and 2011, despite an HDI 
ranking that, in 1980, was comparable to that of Brazil and higher than that of China, by 2005 not only had 
South Africa’s HDI trajectory diverged from that of Brazil, but it was overtaken by China.
When South Africa’s 0.699 HDI value is discounted for inequality (IHDI), “the HDI falls to 0.467, a loss of 33.2 
percent due to inequality in the distribution of the HDI dimension indices.”
45
5.2.1  Demography
The demographic profile of a country tells us a number of critical things: the size of the population as well as 
the sex and age profile of this population. It allows us to consider the geographic spread of the population 
and, in particular, the population density and its rural / urban breakdown. These population features are 
essential in that, at a glance, we can begin to glean required government services (particularly in dense, 
urban settings with growing populations from domestic and international migration). These demographic 
features can also hint at the burden of the state in terms of expenditure on such social goods as education 
and healthcare (particularly where there are significant segments of the population that are children or 
sections of the aged that may be growing in numbers). The sex-distribution of the population is an essential 
basis for evaluating the extent – or lack – of gender parity in educational access and completion, as well as 
in political participation and representation, as well as access to critical healthcare services such as ante- 
and post-natal care, which affects the immediate wellbeing of women and children and, over time, lays the 
foundation on which other lifelong human capabilities can be built. 
Using data from the 2018 UN-HDI report, the demographic highlights for South Africa are as follows:
• South Africa is a relatively youthful country. Of the approximately 57million South Africans, the median 
age is 26 years of age. Historically a relatively low median population age would be characterised as 
a demographic dividend with potential long-term benefits for the country’s productivity and economic 
growth if linked to improvements in the youth population’s educational attainment (Lutz, et al., 2019). 
• That said, in terms of the country’s age profile, there has been a steady and continuous decline in the 
proportion of South Africa’s youth population. Currently, just under a fifth of all South Africans are aged 
between 15 and 24 years (18,7%)
46. This can be attributed to the declining birth rate, which now sits at 
2,4 births per woman in 2017 down from just under 5 births per woman in 1980. 
• In terms of the country’s sex profile, women constitute just over half (51%) the total population
• South Africa’s total population currently stands at 58,8million (Statistics South Africa, 2019).
• Current projections estimate a peak population size of 80million by 2080, at which point growth levels 
will flatten and begin to taper down (United Nations World Population Prospects, 2019). 
• In terms of population density, which measures the number of people per square kilometre, South 
Africa is at the lower end with a population density of under 50 people per square km
47.
• Nearly two-thirds of all South Africans (65,8%) live in urban areas; projected to 80% by 2050 (Gardner, 
2018). In 2018, urbanisation on the African continent stood at approximately 40% with Egypt (43%) and 
45   http://hdr.undp.org/sites/all/themes/hdr_theme/country-notes/ZAF.pdf
46   https://youthexplorer.org.za/profiles/country-ZA-south-africa/
47   http://worldpopulationreview.com/countries/south-africa-population/
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
234  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  34
Tunisia (69%) being the only other countries with as comparable a level of urbanisation as South Africa 
(United Nations Population Division, 2018).
• While rising urbanisation places a significant strain on urban health, housing, education, and other 
resources, it does afford the opportunity for mixed-use urban planning that optimises higher population 
densities towards more significant redistribution and cross-subsidisation. 
• Of course, with population density come the risks in the spread of communicable diseases, mainly 
where access to decent housing, health care, potable water, and sanitation is inadequate. 
• These demographic shifts in birth rates are the consequence, among other things, of the government’s 
family planning programmes, including the roll-out of free contraceptives, in public primary health 
facilities. They are probably also the consequence of increased female enrolment rates in education 
as well as improved retention and completion rates. As Laurie DeRose and Øystein (2007) have 
demonstrated, a woman’s educational attainment is strongly correlated with both delayed and lower 
childbearing levels. 
5.2.2  Median Population Age, Young Age Dependency Ratio, Old-Age Dependency Ratio and Population 
Age Cohorts  
Understanding the age structure of a society is an essential aspect in, among other things, understanding 
the constraints to as well as the need and/or opportunities for employment-creation in a given society. In 
addition, it can signal epidemiological and other health risk-factors that are associated with the generational 
profile of a society (i.e. geriatric diseases in the context of an ageing society or immunological risks where 
there are large populations of children under the age of 5 years). For example, the median age is a key 
factor in understanding the rate at which the economy should be expected to generate jobs and for which 
age cohorts over the foreseeable future.  It also has implications for the country’s age dependency ratios 
(i.e. those below 15 years of age and those above 64 years of age who are ordinarily not – nor expected to 
be – employed) (Figure 19). How – and in what combinations – the state and private households is implicated 
in the care for the young and the aged is a pressing social policy issue mainly when considered in relation 
to the size, employment status, and earnings of the working age population. All of these have a bearing 
on a country’s social policy mix and its financing, which depends on the capacity to extract various taxes, 
including individual income taxes. 
• The current median population age stands at 26 years old, meaning that half the country’s population 
is under the age of 26 (UN-HDI, 2018). By contrast, the median population age for Japan, which has 
the world’s highest number of over 65s, sits at 46 years, significantly higher than that of South Africa. 
• Although still demographically favourable, given rising life expectancy levels coupled with a falling birth 
rate, this median age will likely increase over time.  
• In light of the extended life expectancy and declining birth rate, what this means is that the ageing 
population will increasingly form a more significant segment of the entire population – with implications 
for the old age pension, the official retirement age, and healthcare readiness for geriatric illnesses. 
• The declining birth rate means that, over time, the government could maintain a fairly constant child 
grant as a proportion of the government’s social assistance expenditure while increasing the value of 
financial assistance per child. 
Another social and development policy area that will be affected should these demographic trends continue 
is education. Of course, improving the quality of education for children and youth remains an urgent priority. 
As the country’s population ages, however, enabling lifelong-learning opportunities will be key and the modes 
of curriculum design and delivery for the learning needs of older populations should increasingly occupy the 
priorities of education policy planners and educational institutions as well.
Age Dependency Ratio (Young), 1960 - 2018
vta*v
1960
1970
1980
1990
2
2010
Age Dependency Ratio (Old), 1960 - 2018Age Dependency Ratio (Old)
1,160
1970
1993
1990
2000
7010
1960
1970
1990
1990
2000
2010
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   235
page |  35
Figure 19: South Africa Age Dependency Ratio48
5.3.3  Gender Parity: Sex-Ratio At Birth, Sex-Ratio by Age Cohort, and Women’s Political Inclusion 
Questions of gender equality and, specifically, women’s participation in the social, economic, cultural, 
and political life of their society have risen in global prominence over the past few decades. Heralded 
by the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) in 1979, the 
UN’s introduction of the Gender Inequality Index (GII) has lent further weight to calls for the promotion of 
women’s rights and interests, including the eradication of gender-based violence (GBV). he GII is defined as 
“a composite measure reflecting inequality in achievement between women and men in three dimensions: 
reproductive health, empowerment, and the labour market”
49 (Gaye, Klugman, Kovacevic, Twigg, & Zambrani, 
2010). In essence, it is a gendered recalibration of the overall HDI, indicating the extent to which women’s 
wellbeing, political participation, and representation are comparable to that of men. In many parts of the 
world, particularly Asian countries, the differential social value afforded to men and women is often expressed 
during pregnancy with household decisions to terminate female foetuses (Arnold & Zhaoxiang, 1992; Nag, 
1991). Hence the inclusion of sex-ration at birth, which can point to some sex-preference dynamics in utero.  
The sex ratio at birth is generally never equal, with a clear male bias at birth. In virtually all countries, boys are 
more likely to die in childhood than girls since they tend to be more susceptible to birth complications and 
infectious diseases. In light of this greater risk, biologically, more boys than girls tend to be born. However, in 
countries with a male-child preference, the sex-ratio is much more unequal with far higher numbers of boys to 
girls born; a clear indicator of pregnancy terminations based on boy-child preference and what some have 
argued is a form of femicide (Guilmoto, 2007; Jargin, 2018).  
• South Africa has a sex-ratio at the birth of 103 male births per 100 female births compared to 105 boys 
per 100 girls globally. South Africa is within the accepted “natural” sex ratio range of 103-107 boys (UN-
HDI, 2018).
48 https://tradingeconomics.com/south-africa/age-dependency-ratio-percent-of-working-age-population-wb-data.html
49 https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/economy/macro-economy/ensure-womens-place-in-economy-change-patriarchal-
mindset/article6941239.ece

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
236  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  36
• Despite the male-biased sex-ratio at birth, as South Africans age, there are more females than there are 
males. South African women live longer than their male counterparts with an average “life expectancy 
of 67,3 years compared to 61,1 years for males” (StatSA, 2019).  
• Although South Africa is ranked at 113 (out of 189 countries) in terms of its HDI (2018), it ranks significantly 
better in the Gender Inequality Index (GII), where it places at position 90 (out of 160). 
• The share of women’s political representation in legislatures has increased from 28% to 46% between 
1994 and 2019 and 25% to 46% over the same period at the national and provincial levels (South 
African Department of Planning, 2019 )[1].
• This upward trend in the number of women elected to legislative bodies is reversed at local government 
(municipal) level, declining from 37% and 40% in terms of Ward and overall representation respectively 
in 2006 to 32% for both Ward and overall (i.e. Ward and Proportional Representation seats) in 2016 
(DPME, 2019).
50
• It may be that this decline in the gender representativity of municipal councils is linked to the absorption 
of political parties’ women candidates into the provincial and national electoral lists. That said, a failure 
to maintain women’s representation at the local state level will likely curtail women’s voices in key 
decision-making around infrastructural and other service delivery priorities that are determined through 
the municipal integrated development process. 
• To be sure, women’s formal political representation does not necessarily translate into gender-sensitive 
budgeting and decision-making. However, the chances of moving towards gender-responsive 
planning and budgeting, particularly at the coalface of service delivery are lower, when women are 
absent from these decision-making structures. 
5.3.4  Gender-Based Violence (GBV)
• Although the murder rate for women has been declining from approximately 22 murders per 100,000 
to just under 10 between 2002 and 2015, GBV in South Africa remains significantly higher than the 
global average (less than 5 women murdered per 100,000) (DPME, 2019).
• Furthermore, female-headed households experience a higher homicide rate than male-headed 
households at a time when homicide rates for male-headed households are declining. 
• In terms of sexual violence, women continue to experience higher levels of rape and sexual harassment 
than men; a situation linked to the pervasiveness of violent forms of masculinity. 
• The GBV statistics are important in understanding the levels of (in)security that women in a given society 
experience. But they are also important to the extent that they show a strong correlation between GBV 
incidence (particularly in the form of intimate partner domestic violence) and children’s exposure to 
violence (including violence perpetrated against them as well). 
• This has implications for childhood trauma as well as the reproduction and intergenerational transmission 
of all forms of violence; negatively impacting the human security and wellbeing of all members of 
society but especially that of women and children. 
50 All references to data from  the DPME (2019) is drawn and collated from the August 2019 Development Indicators available 
from the DMPE’s online Resource Centre: https://www.dpme.gov.za/publications/Pages/Reports-and-Other-Information-Products.
aspx
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   237
page |  37
5.3.5  Human Capability and Wellbeing
Higher Education and Training Systems:
The inherently racially determined educational inequality characteristic of the pre-democratic education 
system necessitated far-reaching overhaul and rapid transformation. The transformation was facilitated 
through new policies that were adopted by the Democratic Government, including the merging into a single 
educational system and government department, the historically race-based education systems (Fiske & 
Ladd, 2004).
The National Commission on Higher Education, which was convened in 1996, made recommendations in 
transforming the higher education system. Some of these were (Monnapula-Mapesela, 2018):
• Access to higher education and training needed to be expanded;
• Higher education required to be responsive to the country’s needs;
• Governmental structures of higher education and institutions needed better cooperation and 
partnerships at all of the different levels;
• The higher education system needed to be unified thereby forming and coordinating colleges, 
universities, and technikons;
• The framework for qualifications was required to provide improved accessibility, articulation, and 
flexibility;
• Strategic investments and funding were required to serve institutional and societal needs;
• Accreditation and auditing of institutional programmes were required to promote quality;
• Development of distance education and resource-based learning.
The South African higher education and training system is still undergoing transformation. Recently, the 
Department of Science and Technology was merged with the Department of Higher Education and Training 
(DHET). The latter, established in 2009 with the separation of the Department of Education into the Department 
of Basic Education (DBE) and that of Higher Education and Training, was the consequence of the 2008 African 
National Congress (ANC) elective conference in Polokwane (Wedekind, 2016). The formation of the DHET saw 
the introduction of what became known as the Post-School Education and Training (PSET) system consisting of: 
• the Further Education and Training (FET) Colleges (now Technical and Vocational and Training (TVET) 
Colleges, 
• the Adult Education and Training (AET) Centres (now Community Education and Training Centres (CETCs), 
• the Universities, 
• Sector Education and Training Authorities (SETAs),
• the National Skills Authority (NSA), and 
• the National Skills Fund (NSF)  
These more recent developments should be read in the context of and as developments from the Education 
White Paper (DoEd, 1997), which remains relevant today particularly even as the country seeks to create 
an education and training system that is responsive to the Fourth Industrial Revolution. One of the early, 
post-apartheid recommendations from the White Paper was devising strategies to encourage innovation 
and adaption in higher education; a priority that is arguably more urgent today than ever before. In other 
words, many of the transformative levers that are needed for the Fourth Industrial Revolution resonate and 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
238  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  38
are consistent with past and current policy priorities and pronouncements. Therefore, careful consideration 
of lessons from and shortcomings in the implementation of prior policies and strategies is necessary for 
advancing the structural and foundational transformations that will support South Africa’s inclusive and 
human-centred transition into the 4IR.
Below, vital statistics on the country’s current performance on education and training; in essence, on a critical 
component in advancing human capabilities for full social, political, cultural, and economic participation. 
This overview is based on the DPME Development Indicators data (2019). 
• South Africa’s adult illiteracy rate has been in a steady decline since 2002. Currently, the country enjoys 
an adult literacy rate of nearly 95%. 
• Although generally trending upwards, the path to matriculation has, however, been inconsistent. The 
number of students sitting for their final matric exams dipped below 500,000 between 1999 and 2005, 
peaking in 2015 with nearly 650,000 matriculants sitting for the exam. This figure seems to be trending 
downwards at a rapid rate, although this may be due to the expansion of the Post-School Education 
and Training (PSET) system, which consists of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) 
and Community Education and Training (CETC) Colleges. 
• Less than two-thirds of those who sit for their Matric exams pass, and of those who do pass, approximately 
10% achieve a bachelor’s pass that enables them to access post-school education opportunities in 
the university system. 
• Initially dropping to just a quarter of all students graduating in Science, Engineering, and Technology 
disciplines, the proportion reached a peak at just over 
• 30% of all university students graduating in STEM-related fields. 
• Although South Africa’s learner participation rate in education has been increasing since 1990, evident 
disparities in enrolment and completion rates exist along gender.
• By 2016, women’s participation rate stood at just over 66%, while that of males was around 56%. 
• This reflects the country’s gendered demographic profile where 51% of the population is female, but it 
also attests to the government’s focus on gender parity in education. 
• That said, the ten-percentage point variance in female to male educational enrolment warrants 
attention to understand the dynamics underlying differential.
• The government’s school feeding programmes, no-fee schools’ policy for poor neighbourhoods, and, 
at the level of post-school education and training, the extension of free higher education has been key 
for interventions for supporting and enabling the increasing enrolment levels. 
The Gross Enrolment Rate (GER) is the total learner per education level divided by the population of 
corresponding official age in the education level. 
• GPI ratio measures the progress towards gender parity in education participation/learning opportunities 
available for females to those available to males. 
• A unit of GPI equal to 1 shows the parity between females and males. A value less than 1 indicates a 
disparity in favour of men, while a GPI greater than 1 indicates disparity in favour of females.
• Although the GPI is skewed in favour of boys at the commencement of children’s schooling, by the time 
children reach secondary school, the ration is biased in favour of females. This suggests a significant 
drop-out rate among boys.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   239
page |  39
• This trend towards greater female participation in and completion of various levels of education 
becomes intense at high education levels where the GPI significantly in favour of women.
• This scenario raises flags in terms of male-female gender relations, young men’s access to and 
participation in the labour market (particularly at higher occupational levels (i.e., white-collar jobs)).
5.3.6  Health
• Since the significant drop in Life Expectancy in 2005, the country has been making steady progress to 
reverse this trend. By 2016, South Africans were living, on average, to 63 years compared to 53 years 
in 2005 (DPME, 2019). 
• This massive increase over the past ten years is the result of the government’s ARV roll-out programme, 
to date the largest HIV/AIDS government medical response to the epidemic. By 2015, 3,1million South 
Africans were receiving HIV treatment from the state to the tune of R23billion annually.
• Relatedly, the government’s investment in antenatal care for mothers and the administration of pregnant 
mothers to prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission has had a positive impact on the reduction of 
infant and under-5 child mortality rates. 
• This decline in child mortality, together with declining levels of childhood stunting and wasting, can be 
attributed to the high levels of child immunisation and the introduction of child grants (including grants 
for HIV/AIDS orphans), which have bolstered poor households’ food security. 
• Also, the government’s push for a National Health Insurance (NHI), which is intended to provide universal 
health coverage especially for those who cannot afford timeously and quality health treatment and 
care. 
• Implementing the NHI will, among other things, entail redirecting the current state subsidies enjoyed by 
medical aid schemes into serving the general public. 
5.3.7  Mobility and Communication
Another essential service and a precondition for access to and participation in the Fourth Industrial Revolution 
is access to the internet (Figures 20 to 22). The goals of achieving inclusive growth and competitiveness in the 
Fourth Industrial Revolution necessitate the provision of expanded, reliable, and affordable internet access 
South African citizens, businesses and organisations. Nowadays, access to the internet is to be viewed as an 
essential service because the current and future endeavours of government, businesses, and organisations 
to provide digital services are dependent on the end-users having reliable and affordable internet access. 
This is especially relevant towards ensuring participation of those living outside metropolitan areas where new 
or upgraded infrastructure will need to be developed. In the past two decades, South Africa has developed 
world-class infrastructure towards this achieving this aim. These developments are ongoing and there are plans 
to roll-out further programmes to this end. The NDP endeavours to provide South Africa with an information 
infrastructure that underpins and enables an equitable and inclusive knowledge economy, by 2030. The 
South African Government has identified that high speed, availability and quality internet bandwidth are 
especially crucial to developing the country’s global competitiveness. The national broadband policy South 
Africa Connect was thus conceived. This policy aims to realise the NDP’s vision of having universally accessible 
broadband connectivity that meets the needs of the country with respect to cost, speed, and quality. South 
Africa Connect aims to achieve 100% broadband access by 2030 with speeds of 10 Mbps, 1 Gbps, 1Gbps, 
and 100 Mbps for general users, schools, healthcare facilities, and government facilities, respectively (DoC, 
2013).  The second phase of South Africa Connect is currently in progress. 
- i-Ini,IM Atnrn - Wnnf1
180
160
, 140
ßA. 120
100
80
ú9t 60
3 40
20
0
1 ^a1-110. %, P y 0 y\,y;.,.,...;.tis.s.ti ti ti
Yea,
16
14
12
10
8
6
I4
ii
2
0
-South Africa-World
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Year
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
240  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  40
There is still much progress to be made with regard to broadband access. This infrastructural challenge is 
indicated through the comparison of the number of fixed broadband subscriptions per 100 people in South 
Africa to the global average (World Bank, 2019). South Africa is well below the world average in this regard. 
Despite the challenges of broadband infrastructure, the number of internet users in South Africa has still 
significantly increased and progress with regards to South Africa’s digital ecosystem has not been completely 
hindered. This positive trend is owing to the fact that a major portion of South Africans are using their mobile 
devices to access the internet. These findings are reflected in report of the study conducted by World Wide 
Worx in 2017 (World Wide Worx, 2017). The study also found that internet penetration would reach 40% in 
2017. The World Bank data for South Africa’s mobile subscriptions per 100 people also corroborates this 
particular finding, and a positive trend, i.e. growth in South African mobile subscriptions is markedly higher 
than the global average (World Bank, 2019).
The security and reliability of infrastructure and resources are also crucial to South Africa’s achieving 
competitiveness in the Fourth Industrial revolution. For instance, a positive trend in this regard is demonstrated 
by World Bank data, which shows the progress in the country’s ability to provide secure web servers, which is 
essential for secure online transactions, etc. over the last two years in particular.
Figure 20: Number of fixed broadband subscriptions per 100 people 
Source: World Bank [UJ 7]
 Figure 21: Number of mobile cellular subscriptions per 100 people 
Source: World Bank [UJ_8]

É
6000
4000
E
14000
12000
10000
8000
2000
o
- South Africa-World
201020112012 2013 20142015 2016 2017 2018
Year
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   241
page |  41
 Figure 22: Number of secure internet servers per 1 million people 
Source: World Bank [UJ 9]
5.3.8  Economic/Material Conditions
Having noted the co-constitution between the economic and social, we now turn to the material conditions 
under which South Africans live. The NDP reflects an understanding of the issues that confront the SA economy, 
particularly as they pertain to youth employment and water, energy, and ICT infrastructure. However, it is 11 
years from its achievement deadline, and the country is grossly under- performing on all the metrics. 
The key issues to contend with in respect of SA’s economy are the particular tactics that will be employed 
to ensure that the 4IR simultaneously addresses and these are low growth and limited opportunities; capital 
inequality and low investment; as well as economic distance and limited social cohesion. 
The starting point is an understanding of the performance dynamics of the South African economy. South 
Africa’s GDP in 2018 was registered as USD 366 billion, which is considerably smaller than the rest of the BRICS 
nations, which all have economies that exceed USD I trillion. Relative to Nigeria, a similar-sized Sub-Saharan 
economy, South Africa has shown stronger growth over time but is only marginally larger by GDP .
The largest sector by GDP contribution is Finance, Real Estate, and Business Services. Government services; 
Trade & Accommodation and Manufacturing sectors are the next largest sectors. The smallest sector by GDP 
contribution is Electricity, Gas and Water. Regression in the Water and Energy sector is the single-biggest threat 
to South Africa- both in respect of human development and economic growth. Agriculture, forestry and 
fishing; Construction and Personal Services also contribute under 5% each to the total GDP pie. South Africa’s 
historical characterisation as a ‘minerals and energy complex’ is questionable in the context of GDP data. 
Mining contributes 8% and Energy, 2% to GDP . Mining has grown at a rate of 0.1% and Energy has regressed 
by 0,4% in the period. The Finance, Real Estate & Business Sector has produced the most growth in the period. 
It is also the most significant contributor to national GDP at 22%. Whilst Transport & Communications is part of 
the bottom 5 sectors, contributing 9% to total GDP , it is the second-largest growth sector in SA at 2,2% growth 
in the period. South Africa’s government sector continued to contribute a sizable share of GDP and increased 
its share substantially over the period.
The largest employment sector in South Africa is private households, followed by Community and Social 
Services. Neither of these sectors are explicitly captured in national GDP calculations. This indicates a large 
area of potential GDP under-counting. The community service sector grew the most, by labour, over the 
period. Agriculture & Construction have increased their share of the labour force (6% & 4%, respectively) 
at a rate that exceeds their GDP contribution (1,9% and 1,5%, respectively). The Finance sector, the most 
significant contributor to GDP , grew its labour force by 4%.

-0-South Africa -- Ecuador-4-- Colombia--0-Bolivia -0-Guatemala
64.0
63.0
62.0
aê 61.0
60.0m
c59.0
:g 58.0o
57.0
56.0
55.0
54.0
2000 20012002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
242  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  42
Elementary or unskilled workers comprise the largest share of the working population. Elementary workers have 
also grown the most as an occupational class. This growth aligns with the growth observed in the Construction 
and Agriculture sectors. Service workers constitute the next largest category, which aligns with the size of the 
Finance, Trade, Communications, and Business sectors. Professionals, along with skilled agricultural workers, 
form the minority of the South African work-force. Technicians and clerks/ administrators are also a small 
component of the total working population. South Africa’s labour force is the key cause for concern . 
The majority of existing work is performed in the domestic and unskilled sectors whereas the requirements 
of the next industrial revolution will demand more professionals and technicians with a bias towards STEM-
trained individuals. Human development, therefore, appears to be the key constraint to economic growth 
and development.
 Poverty, Inequality, and Income
• South Africa is the world’s most unequal society, with a GINI coefficient of 0.63 (Figure 23).
• 10% of the population continues to earn more than 50% of the country’s total national income, with 
the poorest households living on less than R100,000 per annum (DPME, 2019; StatsSA, 2019; The World 
Bank, 2018). 
• The Gini coefficient, when measured in terms of per capita expenditure, would likely be higher than the 
0.65 level were it not for the government’s various social protection measures such as social grants and 
its public works programmes, which provide short-term employment opportunities for the extremely 
poor. 
• In terms of poverty headcounts, which measure absolute poverty levels in the country, there had been 
a decline across all three poverty headcount measures between 2006 and 2011.
Figure 23: Top 5 Gini Index: 2000-2011
Euromonitor International from National Statistics [UJ_10]
5.3.9  Work, Employment and Vulnerability
•  The Structure of SA’s economy has changed dramatically over the past two decades with historical 
anchor sectors such as mining and energy, reducing in terms of their aggregate contribution to GDP 
as well as their average growth rate over time (Figure 24).
• Regression in the Water and Energy sector is the single biggest threat to South Africa- both in respect of 
human development and economic growth.

Private
Households
Labour Contribution Í Sector
Mining
Manufacturing
Utiiri es
Construction
Trade
Community and Social Services
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   243
page |  43
• Whilst the National Development Plan (NDP) envisages aggregate growth of 5.5%, the highest growing 
sector between 2010 and 2018 has been Finance at 2,6%. This indicates that all sectors are under-
performing relative to the growth targets necessary to respond to SA’s development challenges.
• South Africa’s labour force is the critical cause for concern. The majority of existing work is performed 
in the domestic and unskilled sectors. Whereas the requirements of the next industrial revolution will 
demand more professionals and technicians with a bias towards STEM-trained individuals. Human 
development, therefore, appears to be the key constraint to economic growth and development.
• SA’s priorities in respect to the 4IR and attendant economic competitiveness ought to be human 
capital development as well as the deployment of technology infrastructure and ICT. These two 
aspects are co-related, requiring simultaneous investment to produce the desired outcome.
• Agriculture & Construction have increased their share of the labour force (6% & 4%, respectively) 
at a rate that exceeds their GDP contribution (1,9% and 1,5%, respectively).
• The Finance sector, the largest contributor to GDP , grew its labour force by 4%.
Figure 24: South Africa Labour Contribution / Sector
Department of Labour, South Africa
One of the main challenges facing South Africa is unemployment. Currently, the real unemployment rate 
stands at nearly 39%, representing more than a third of the country’s working-age population (Figure 25).
The country’s labour absorption rate has, between 2001 and 2017, remained largely constant between 40% 
and 45% while the labour-force participation rate has, in the same period, hovered between 55% and 62%.

00
ID
40
20
10
South African Unemployment by Age Cohort:
0
'-201122221 i20022001 2001 2005 2000 2017 m®70827DW
.
207120122074 215 27769117
EM002644 y7s45.64 1+s5544 yes-Tad
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
244  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  44
Figure 25: South African Unemployment by Age Cohort
Department of Planning Measurement & Evaluation Development Indicators, 2019
5.3.10  Public Administration, Services, and Trends in Government Social Expenditure
In general, the pre-democratic public administration and services systems in South Africa were also disjointed 
and orientated towards serving the needs of a racial minority (Tshandu, 2010; Tshandu, & S. Kariuki, 2010). 
Consequently, public administration underwent far-reaching transformation post-1994; an agenda that was 
embedded in and guided by the Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP). Similarly, as with the 
transformative agenda for higher education and training systems in South Africa, the Democratic Government 
laid out transformative agenda in the White Paper for Transformation of the Public Service Delivery (DPSA, 
1997), in order to prioritise the delivery services according to the basic needs of South Africa citizens.
In the Fourth Industrial Revolution, this transformative agenda prevails, albeit on the basis of a new configuration. 
Globally, opportunities for the deployment of 4IR technologies to ensure effective and quality public service 
delivery are being pursued. Although there is no overarching strategy for transforming public service delivery 
in South Africa in the Fourth Industrial Revolution, Government has already undertaken to digital transition of this 
sector. In particular, the e-Government Strategy and Roadmap seeks to advance service and collaboration 
efforts through Government to Government, Government to Citizen, Government to Business, Government to 
Employee digitisation programmes (DTPS, 2017).
While various sectors are already benefitting from the aforementioned shift towards the digitisation of public 
service delivery, a collective and unified strategy – arising from policy and legislation – for nationalised 
digital transformation in relation to public service delivery is urgent. Without which it will be impossible to 
guarantee an effective, efficient, reliable, accessible, and transparent public administration to support global 
competitiveness and human wellbeing in the 4IR.
A key aspect of public administration relates to the collection, allocation, and disbursement of fiscal 
resources (Figure 26). In some economic contexts in which there is high unemployment, government social 
expenditure acts as an essential safety net for many households. Between 2005 and 2018, the South African 
government’s expenditure on social benefits (such as the child, disability, and old-age pension grants) and 
general government services to the public (i.e. service delivery) more than doubled (DPME, 2019). This was 
in the context of an approximately fourfold increase in tax revenue. Government tax revenue is made up of 
four primary tax sources: Personal Income Tax (PIT), Corporate Income Tax (CIT), Value-Added Tax (VAT), and a 
range of other taxes such as income duty and sin tax. While there has been a steady increase in the value of 
tax receipts per tax source, the largest source of government tax revenue is personal income tax (PIT) followed 

ce
1400 000
1200 000
1000 000
fio0 000
600 000
400 000
200 000
o
TAX REGISTER AND REVENUE COLLECTION, 1996 - 2017
27 000 000
25 500 000
24 000 000
22 500 000
21 000 000
19 500 000
- 18 000 000
- 16 500 000
- 15 000 000
13 500 000
12 000 000
- 10 500 000
- 9 000 000
- 7 500 000
- 6 000 000
-4 500 000
-3 000 000
- 1 500 000
0
Other tax types- - Value Added Tex (VAT)Corporate Iscorne Tax (CR)Personal Income Tax (PIT)
- Income Tax register
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   245
page |  45
by value-added tax (VAT). Corporate taxes, on the other hand, although slightly higher in value than other tax 
types, represent a significantly lower proportion of the government’s tax revenue as compared to PIT and VAT. 
What this suggests is that individuals bear much of the country’s tax burden. 
5.3.11  Natural Environment
Global calls for greater environmental-sustainability have placed climate mitigation at the centre of this 
century’s economic and industrial development regime. The Sustainable Development Goals have 
heightened the urgency of industrial transitions that are climate-sensitive, placing human and environmental 
wellbeing at the heart of global development action. Within this context, South Africa’s climate performance 
is worrying: 
• Coal remains the country’s leading source of energy, accounting for 85% of the electricity production 
in 2016 (DPME, 2019). It is therefore not surprising that the country’s carbon dioxide emissions remain 
above recommended thresholds.
• Furthermore, the country’s Green-House Gas (GHG) emissions have been on an upward trajectory.
Figure 26: South African Tax Register and Revenue Collection
Sources: Department of Planning Measurement &  
Evaluation Development Indicators, 2019
• The costs of air pollution on human health and economic growth in South Africa have yet to be 
determined, That said, fine particulate matter (PM) is one of the most lethal pollutants, higher 
concentrations of which are known to increase human and animal mortality, not to mention adverse 
effects on the biosphere. 
• Areas with increased industrial growth, such as Richard’s Bay in Kwazulu-Natal and the platinum belt 
stretching between the North West, across Limpopo, and into parts of north-west Mpumalanga are at 
particular emergent risk of poor air quality. 
• Government priorities in terms of improving air quality, have prioritised the following actions: 
• Continued implementation of the Air Quality Act and its National Framework
• Managing listed emissions activities
• Launching a Health Study in the Highveld Priority Area
• Undertaking Cost-Benefit Analyses in air quality management

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
246  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  46
5.4  KEY ISSUES
The NDP demonstrates an understanding of the issues that confront the SA economy, particularly as they 
pertain to youth employment and water, energy and ICT infrastructure.
However, it is 11 years from its achievement deadline and the country is under- performing on some of 
the metrics. The key issues to contend with in respect of SA’s economy are the particular tactics that will be 
employed to ensure that the 4IR simultaneously addresses:
Low-Growth = Limited Opportunity
• South Africa’s economy has been characterised by low-growth for the assessed period, 2010- 2018, 
registering a per annum increase of 2%, on average.
• Low GDP growth undermines the objectives of the National Development Plan, which envisages 
radically altered socio-economic outcomes by 2030 on the basis of a growth outlook of a 5.4% real 
growth/ annum.
• Whilst GDP growth is not the sole driver of development, failure to increase the value created in the 
economy limits its ability to absorb economic entrants, thus compounding household poverty.
Capital Inequality = Low Investment
• South Africa’s inequality level is the highest in the world. The wealthiest 10% own 71% of the wealth while 
the poorest 60% own a mere 7% of the wealth.
• SA’s inequality is a direct consequence of its history. More recently, the liberalisation of the economy 
has inordinately favoured those whose initial endowments were higher, endowments subsidised by the 
apartheid-era government.
• The consequence of capital inequality is that the minority is unable to make investments in new value 
creation, depending solely on the private interests of the minority to drive total investment growth.
Economic Distance = Limited Social Cohesion
• SA’s economy can thus be understood as one defined by Economic Distance, in which wealthy 
households are able to access social services through private providers and are thus shielded from the 
reality of the majority’s lived experiences.
• The economic isolation of the majority is compounded by historical geography of exclusion, which 
raises the economic costs of participation to a level that results in economic disinterest, registered in 
StatsSA’s Labour Force Surveys as prospective workforce participants who are no longer looking for work.
This economic distance results in unequal levels of commitment to a shared vision, which is particularly 
important in a free market economy, as households and firms are required to opt into the national project 
and not coerced.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   247
page |  47
CHAPTER SIX: PC4IR 4IR Definition and Dream
6.1  INTRODUCTION 
The Fourth Industrial Revolution has been defined in previous chapters, and it is important that South Africa is 
clear in its definition of this Revolution and that it adopts a definition that aligns with the global narrative on the 
revolution and the impact it will have in a globalised world.
In this regard, the Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution, has compared the definitions 
and literature on this revolution and has noting that it is characterised by a fusion of the physical, cyber and 
biological worlds, unlocking a new era where intelligence- the ability to acquire and apply knowledge, will 
increasingly transfer to machines and human existence is fundamentally altered.
In this regard, the Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution encourages South Africa to 
adopt an adapted definition of the Revolution that ensures a human-centric approach defined as:
The 4th Industrial Revolution is an era where people are using smart, connected and 
converged Cyber, Physical and Biological systems and smart business models to define 
and reshape the social, economic and political spheres.
In light of the defining characteristics of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the South African need to place 
the human at the centre, as a country, we also need to ensure that the Revolution is used as a means to an 
end towards our economic and social needs and goals, as unpacked in previous chapters. 
A focus on this Revolution or Technology purely for the sake of it would be a lost opportunity in moving the 
country forward and in improving our global competitiveness while driving inclusive growth and addressing 
our poverty, inequality and unemployment challenges.
In light of the country having an articulated Vision and key goals, through the NDP , the Fourth Industrial 
Revolution and the technologies, systems, and impact that it brings should be leveraged to bring us closer to 
the attainment of our economic and social goals.
In light of this, the Commission has rallied its efforts and work to produce a strategic plan that is centred 
on a dream that assists us in focusing our efforts. The proposed dream of South Africa in a Fourth Industrial 
Revolution world is:
South Africa will have a globally competitive, inclusive and shared economy with the 
technological  capability and production capacity that is driven by  people harnessing 
the 4IR to propel the country forward towards its social and economic goals, instead 
of falling behind.
6.2  WORKSTREAMS
In light of the Terms of Reference as well as the South African context covered in this chapter, the Commission 
has established eight workstreams with defined focus areas to conduct its work
51: 
a) Infrastructure and Resources
7. Make recommendations on enabling relevant infrastructure for SA to participate in the digital 
economy
51   https://www.gov.za/documents/presidential-commission-fourth-industrial-revolution-members-and-terms-reference-9-apr
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
248  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  48
b) Science, Technology, and Innovation
1. Advise on a technology research and development program to advance 4IR;
2. Make recommendations on enabling relevant infrastructure for SA to participate in the digital 
economy;
3. Make recommendations on interventions to facilitate innovation and entrepreneurship, and for 
SMMEs to take advantage of the 4IR;
c) Economic and Social Impact
1. Develop a coordinated national system and plan to react to 4IR including definite intercessions to 
be done accomplishing worldwide competitiveness of the key commercial segments (farming, 
finance, mining, manufacturing, ICT, and STI);
2. Recommend approaches to address inclusivity and the digital divide;
3. Recommend mechanisms to measure the impact of interventions on 4IR;
d) Human Capital and Future World of Work
1. Advise on approaches for the development of skills and the work of the future;
e) Industrialisation & Commercialisation
1. Develop a coordinated national system and plan to react to 4IR including definite intercessions 
to be done accomplishing worldwide competitiveness of the key economic segments (farming, 
finance, mining, manufacturing, ICT, and STI);
2. Make recommendations on interventions to enable innovation and entrepreneurship, and for 
SMMEs to take advantage of the 4IR;
f) Policy and Legal
1. Recommend an institutional framework and mechanism to coordinate 4IR programs; 
2. Recommend approaches to address inclusivity and digital divide;
g) Capital Markets and Financing
1. Advise on strategies to mobilise resources to support the 4IR interventions;
h) Integration, Programme Management, and Communications
1. Develop a coordinated national system and plan to react to 4IR including definite intercessions 
to be done accomplishing worldwide competitiveness of the key economic segments (farming, 
finance, mining, manufacturing, ICT, and STI);
2. Recommend an institutional framework and mechanism to coordinate 4IR programs.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   249
page |  49
CHAPTER 7: Introduction of the pillars
Given the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the opportunity it presents, if harnessed by South Africa to make 
progress towards the country’s economic and social goals, we need to clearly identify the main drivers 
of a South African 4IR Strategy and plan. These drivers would result in key scenarios for the country being 
developed, which can be tested and projected to understand their likely impact on the country, assessed for 
likelihood, and for the development of implementation plans. Given the assessment of South Africa’s reality 
and preparedness for the 4IR, as discussed earlier, there are some key insights as to what should be focused 
on in developing a South African 4IR strategy:
7.1  TECHNOLOGY, INVENTION AND INNOVATION
There is a need to embrace the convergence of the Physical, Cyber, and Biological and more deeply 
understand and leverage smart converged systems, models, and solutions. As a country we need to determine 
our ability to lead in, compete in or leverage the race of supercomputing, open-source technology as well as 
the realities presented by Artificial Intelligence, the Internet of Things and smart systems in our social systems, 
governance, business. We also need to look at where the 4IR presents opportunities for us to grow, improve 
or save existing sectors in our economy or innovate in new sectors.
7.2  PEOPLE AND SKILLS
South Africa has a young population and high unemployment and as such requires a 4IR strategy that will look 
at how we develop people and the skills in the country that addresses those who are neither in employment 
nor in education (NEETs) as well. The 4IR requires a skilled, capable and technologically advanced workforce 
which is continuously learning and keeping pace with the rate of development and change that the 4IR 
makes the norm. A smart and connected society is also fast becoming the norm and South Africa has key 
issues to solve for in attaining this goal.
7.3 INFRASTRUCTURE, RESOURCES, AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
There is fundamental infrastructure required as the foundation of 4IR participation for citizens and indeed a 
country. In the road to a smart world and environment, South Africa needs to look into connected smart cities, 
towns, and communities. Transportation of goods and people can be made more efficient. Importantly 
sustainability needs to be a focus by leveraging clean renewable self-sustainable energy more while 
advancing environment management and control mechanisms.
7.4  ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INCLUSIVITY
The 4IR requires and makes the norm, smart business models and smart money. South Africa needs to 
understand its structural economic make-up and align with growth opportunities presented by the revolution. 
Economies of the 4IR are built on intellectual property and are driven predominantly by entrepreneurs. Smart 
businesses built for this revolution are run by deploying smart business models, new ways of production, 
distribution and cashless seamless payments. New economic sectors and opportunities are created through 
innovation and country are more and more finding themselves competing globally where geographical 
boundaries no longer limit business. South Africa needs to use this opportunity to drive growth in its economy 
and ensure that is proactively growing and supporting industries that are aligned to the 4IR, while enabling 
all industries with 4IR capabilities.
7.5  STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS AND GOVERNANCE 
4IR breaks down the segregation of many aspects and requires more of a convergence in things that 
previously remained separate (e.g.: Cyber and Physical worlds). This reality requires a higher prevalence of 
interdisciplinary approaches and stakeholder collaborations. In this regard, Smart Government as well as 
Smart Partners, as well as Smart Partners, becomes paramount. In order to support this, there is a need for 
governance to become increasingly electronic as well as enabling. Smart laws that allow for technological 
SOCIAL
COHESION
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
250  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  50
advancement; sound Governance and an accountable Government that is efficient and more and more 
real-time; Smart collaboration both continentally and Globally on common goals aimed at improving life; all 
become more and more of the norm.
These five pillars map closely to the NDP Approach To Change (figure below), which speaks to a focus the 
looks at Conditions, Opportunities, Capabilities working in a virtuous cycle with Employment, Growth, Poverty 
Reduction, and Rising Living Standards (Figure 27).
Figure 27: South Africa NDP Cycle of Development 
The National Development Plan, 2013

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   251
page |  51
CHAPTER EIGHT: In-depth treatment of the Pillars
8.1  TECHNOLOGY, INVENTION AND INNOVATION
Trends in technology and innovation have led to impacting various sectors of economies globally. One 
such sector is the manufacturing sector. Advancements in 3D printing and mass customization have added 
new dimensions to this sector. However, manufacturing is not the only sector to impacted by innovation 
and technology. All sectors are impacted by advances in processing capabilities of data.  This processing 
power innovation has led to bringing together various sectors of the economy such as agriculture, power 
generation, manufacturing including various natural resources. The table below (Table 1) provides insight into 
the technologies and innovation from a global perspective.
Technology Description
Artificial Intelligence 
and Robotics
Development of machines that can substitute for humans, increasingly in tasks
Ubiquitous linked 
sensors
Also known as the “Internet of Things”. The use of networked sensors to remotely 
connect, track and manage products, systems and grids.
Virtual and 
augmented realities
Next-step interfaces between humans and computers involving immersive 
environments, holographic readouts, and digitally produced overlays for mixed-
reality experiences.
Additive 
manufacturing
Advances in additive manufacturing, using a widening range of materials and 
methods. Innovations include 3D bioprinting of organic tissues.
Blockchain and 
distributed ledger 
technology
Distributed ledger technology based on cryptographic systems that manage, 
verify and publicly record transaction data; the basis of “cryptocurrencies” such 
as bitcoin.
Advanced materials 
and nanomaterials
Creation of new materials and nanostructures for the development of 
beneficial material properties, such as thermoelectric efficiency, shape 
retention and new functionality.
Energy capture, 
storage and 
transmission
Breakthroughs in battery and fuel cell efficiency; renewable energy through 
solar, wind, and tidal technologies, energy distribution through smart grid 
systems; wireless energy transfer, and more.
New computing 
technologies
New architectures for computing hardware, such as quantum computing, 
biological computing or neural network processing, as well as innovative 
expansion of current computing technologies.
Biotechnologies Innovations in genetic engineering, sequencing and therapeutics, as well as 
biological computational interfaces and synthetic biology.
Geoengineering Technological intervention in planetary systems, typically to mitigate effects of 
climate change by removing carbon dioxide or managing solar radiation.
Neurotechnology Innovations such as smart drugs, neuroimaging and bioelectronic interfaces 
that allow for reading, communicating and influencing human brain activity.
Space technologies Development allowing for greater access to and exploration of space, 
including microsatellites, advanced telescopes, reusable rockets and 
integrated rocket-jet engines.
Table 1: Important Technologies
Source: Trade & industrial policy strategies, department of trade and industry
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
252  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  52
8.1.1  South Africa Diagnostic
8.1.1.1 South African NSI Landscape
STI role in rallying South Africa developmental goals is well documented in various government strategic 
documents.  The 1996 White Paper on Science and Technology, 2014–2019 Medium-term Strategic Framework 
(MTSF), 2008 Ten-year Innovation Plan (TYIP)
52, 2002 National Research and Development Strategy (NRDS), The 
National Development Plan (NDP) also recognises the important role of Science, Technology and Innovation.
South Africa’s White Paper on Science and Technology (1996) describes the National System of Innovation 
(NSI) as “a set of functioning institutions, organisations and policies which impact constructively in the pursuit 
of a common set of social and economic goals and objectives”.
53 South Africa National System of Innovation 
is made up of different stakeholder such as government, industry, academia, and society, with the aim to 
decrease unemployment rates,  drive economic growth, address triple bottom line challenges of poverty, 
unemployment, and inequality and improve the lives of South African citizens.  
Participation of black people and women in the research and development workforce has increased 
considerably, and doctoral graduation rates have risen, while the Science Technology and Innovation 
institutional landscape has expanded, and the number of publications has grown.
54 Through NSI South Africa 
economy can be transformed from resource-based to a knowledge-based economy while addressing 
several weaknesses that would hamper progress. To this end, the DST developed the “Ten Year Innovation 
Plan” (TYIP)
55, for the period 2008 to 2018. The Plan outlines the path that SA intends to take towards building 
a knowledge economy.
The National Development Plan (NDP) has identified science, technology, and innovation as main drivers 
for economic growth, job creation, and socio-economic especially in the era of the 4thIndustrial revolution.  
South Africa’s National System of Innovation (NSI) will contribute to  and helping citizens thrive in a world where 
increased national competitiveness it’s a necessity, including rapid changes in creating opportunities for 
improved quality of life. South African NSI and global participation, EU, National-, and Regional Innovation 
strategy and projects are progressively being considered as an engaging structure to investigate open doors 
for joint effort, new associations, and instruments for coordination. This is especially significant considering 
the present situation of financial emergency where rare assets and fracture of activities presents genuine 
difficulties.
56
The Fourth Industrial Revolution, with its specialist dangers and openings, is additionally upon us. South Africa, 
along these lines, needs refreshed policy reactions to extend the task that can be performed by STI, can 
play in, for example, re-industrialisation, administration conveyance, modernizing the agrarian area, and 
alleviating ecological debasement. 
The Draft 2018 White Paper on STI57 underlines the central subjects of inclusivity, change, and collaborations. 
Activities should be made to address and actualize policy soundness, human capital improvement, 
information extension, progressive execution, and expanded venture, with the point being to expand on 
South Africa victories and embrace new methodologies where required, in order to cultivate an NSI in which 
innovativeness, learning and enterprise can prosper. 
According to the South African STI indicators booklet 2017 (south-african-sti-indicators-booklet-2017), “R&D 
investment as a percentage of gross domestic product, increased to 0.8 in 2015/16, slightly up from the  
52 http://www.naci.org.za/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/South_African_Science_Technology_And_Innovation_Indicators_
Report_2017.pdf
53 http://www.naci.org.za/wp-content/uploads/2010/01/Review-of-the-White-Paper-on-Science-and-Technology.pdf
54 https://www.saasta.ac.za/saasta_wp/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/FINAL-White-Paper-to-Cabinet_11-March-2019.pd
55 https://www.saasta.ac.za/Media-Portal/download/bio_fs16.pdf  
56 https://www.sarima.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/SA-Innovation-Landcape-and-Framework.pdf
57 https://www.gov.za/sites/default/files/gcis_document/201809/41909gon954.pdf
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   253
page |  53
0.77% recorded in 2014/15.”58 Even though it has increased, South Africa is still far from the target of 1.5% 
expected in 2019.  According to the World Economic Forum (WEF)/Accenture report (2017)59, “the use of a 
combination of technologies such as cloud, mobile, data analytics, artificial intelligence, and drones has the 
potential to fundamentally increase their impact and alter the way we live, work and interact.” 
Usage of such technologies enabled by telecom technology is anticipated to increase the flow of information 
and money flowing through the global economy from $26 trillion in 2012 to more than $80 trillion in 2025. 
This will be realized as more companies start to integrate cloud, mobile, and global digital services to their 
service and business models. The number of connected devices that enable and drive internet of things (IoT) 
could reach 30 billion by 2020. The global transition away from fossil fuel-based energy sources is driven by 
three key factors 
- Upward price pressure as a result of the finite availability of resources for energy end-use
- Downward price pressure due to more renewable sources of energy being deployed
- Regulatory/policy pressure as a result of global implications and realities of climate change
The development of 4IR type technologies that can be applied in the energy sector has been driven by 
the realities around planetary limits, connectivity, and the convergence of a range of already existing and 
improving technologies.
8.1.1.2 Framework 
The adoption of the South African Innovation Scorecard Framework by the National Advisory Council on 
Innovation (NACI) in 2016/17 provides a framework for the analysis of the state of science, technology, 
and innovation (STI) in South Africa. This framework classifies STI exercises into three parts: the open division’s 
empowering exercises, firm-level advancement exercises, and the financial and social yields of development. 
8.1.1.3 Skills  
There is a low supply of doctoral qualifications for females in disciplines such as engineering, mathematics 
and statistics, and computer and information sciences. Only 18% of doctoral degrees in engineering were 
awarded to female graduates in 2015. In terms of race, there is a limited supply of black doctoral graduates 
in disciplines such as life sciences and engineering
60.  It is evident that we need to strengthen research 
capacity at historically disadvantaged institutions (HDIs) partly addresses this high-end skill supply challenge.
The firm-level innovation activities are investments, linkages, and entrepreneurship, as well as recent 
developments in the South African intellectual property right (IPRs) regime. Government’s contribution to 
business expenditure on research and development (BERD) is shown to be low and lacking an appropriate 
coordination mechanism for a coherent response to the prioritisation and funding of research, development, 
and innovation (RDI) by various government entities. However, government is shown to contribute 
significantly to the South African venture capital industry, which is good news for innovation and technology 
commercialisation in small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Moreover, funds and resources need to be more 
accessible for entrepreneurs in the STI sector.  
New skills will be required and should be prioritised at primary, secondary and tertiary education levels e.g. 
STEM, programming, robotics, AI, data analytics, IoT, ML/AI.  Further investigations into mechanisms to enable 
this will be required (if not already in place or underway).
58 http://www.naci.org.za/index.php/south-african-sti-indicators-booklet-2017/
59  https://www.accenture.com/_acnmedia/pdf-64/accenture-fiscal-2017-annual-report.pdf
60  http://www.naci.org.za/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/South_African_Science_Technology_And_Innovation_Indicators 
_ Report_2017.pdf
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
254  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  54
8.1.1.4 Policy
The industrial policy relies heavily on STI capabilities to transform the country into a knowledge-driven economy, 
a recommendation is made to strengthen the linkages between industrial policy and STI policy, as well as 
opening up the market for new players especially SMMEs. The high-technology exports remain low, with 
the country relying heavily on imported high-technology products. The high-technology industries in which 
the country is seriously underperforming are those of artificial intelligence, Blockchain, virtual/augmented 
reality simulation environments, automatic data-processing machines, electrical and electronic goods, 
biotechnologies, storage/transmission, advanced materials, advanced sensor platforms as well as medicinal 
products and pharmaceuticals. 
South Africa still have key issues in STI policy, such as the implications of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (Industry 
4.0) for South Africa, entrepreneur development and support, public-sector innovation, and local or regional 
systems of innovation. The analysis of the global competitiveness of South Africa, especially in respect of 
entrepreneurship, shows that there is a need for government to be agile and innovative in easing the burden 
of doing business in South Africa; hence the incorporation of a recommendation for improving public-sector 
innovation in support of starting a business, handling insolvencies and saving on tax administration. Information 
and communication technologies (ICTs) provide an opportunity to enhance public-sector innovation. As the 
country is planning to embrace Industry 4.0, its recommended that , South Africa should respond to this wave 
from the perspective of developing countries.
8.1.1.5 SA 4IR Opportunities, Centres of Excellence 
The vision for SA’s development in this era of industrial and social development should address the following 
key issues:
Prosperity and Wealth Creation – create a prosperous South Africa. All South African citizens share in the 
development of the country. 
Prosperity means every community has access to infrastructure and facilities (paved roads, schools, clinics, 
libraries, electricity, clean drinking water, etc.). Prosperity restores our human dignity. Wealth creation happens 
where people live. Reverse the centralisation of wealth in major economic hubs. This realises that every part 
of South Africa has a competitive advantage that can be utilised to create local economic development 
opportunities. 
Inclusiveness – We have a chance to address the shortcomings of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd industrial revolutions. 
Research shows that a significant portion of the global population has not benefitted from the advancements 
brought about the industrial revolutions of the past. This wave of technological, industrial, and social 
advancements must help the most vulnerable members of our society. People led rather than technology 
determined. Empowers human wellbeing, gives them more choices, opportunities, freedom, and control over 
their lives, the benefits are distributed fairly and evenly across the broader society especially the marginalized 
who were disadvantaged in the previous eras
Connected, digitally advanced and smart - Fourth Industrial Revolution, Industry 4.0 or Society 5.0 is brought 
about by advances in the convergence of and collaboration between a number of technologies. For SA 
enterprises to remain globally competitive, they will have to embrace technologies that improve efficiency 
of operations, allow for better internal and external integration, give their customers a unique customer 
experience, environmentally and financially sustainable, and break the boundaries of location and time. 
Similarly, governments of the future are efficient, effective, responsive and deliver high quality services to all 
its citizens. Society, government, enterprise, academia and small, medium, and micro enterprise (SMMEs) – 
These advances must benefit all of South Africa. 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   255
page |  55
8.1.2 Energy sector 
It is important to note that energy has been central to every previous industrial revolution and the 4IR is 
likely to be quite similar.   Similarly, global energy systems are undergoing a transition enabled by some 4IR 
technologies but mostly driven by other factors. The 4IR can and should play a fundamental role for South 
Africa to realise the National Development Plan (NDP) Vision 2030 in energy.
61   Some key linkages between 
energy and 4IR technologies for South Africa are listed below in Table 2.
Energy 4IR
Sustainable low-carbon high-quality of supply of 
energy to enable 4IR technologies and vice versa
Energy storage/transmission, 3D printing, drones/ 
autonomous vehicles, biotechnologies
Improved connectivity and enabling 4IR 
technologies to operate, protect and plan future 
energy systems
Advanced materials, advanced sensor platforms 
(PMUs), AI, computing, IoT, virtual/augmented reality
Enabling platforms for distributed future energy 
systems e.g. demand-side response, aggregation 
platforms (VPPs)
Advanced sensor platforms, new computing 
technologies (big data, analytics), IoT
Energy storage as a 4IR technology in itself is directly 
linked to energy Energy storage
Virtual Power Plants Remote sensing, platforms, Blockchain
Increased demand-side participation (towards 
presumption) Energy storage
3-D printing of energy infrastructure equipment 
components 3-D printing
Table 2: Linkages between energy and the 4IR in South Africa
In transitioning to a more diversified, distributed, cleaner and more sustainable energy system, sectors 
will become increasingly coupled, likely electrified as well as powered by renewable energy (as shown 
graphically in Figure 28 and 29).  4IR technologies like drones/ autonomous vehicles, advanced materials, 
biotechnologies, storage/transmission, advanced materials and advanced sensor platforms would be most 
important in this respect.
A listing of some of the linkages between 4IR and energy is provided below:
• Virtual/augmented reality simulation environments (for training and emergency response)
• Drones (for network maintenance and security)
• New computing platforms (predictive analytics, big data) for reduced maintenance outages (increased 
plant availability), improve maintenance planning and reduction of maintenance costs
• Utilisation of advanced remote, advanced sensor platforms (improved operations & control)
• Use of AI/ML (for improving operational planning in energy systems)
• Use of Blockchain, AI and new computing technologies for better communications and trading 
between market participants (Eskom, distributors (municipalities), individual/aggregated suppliers & 
customers in local communities and businesses) to fully leverage distributed resources e.g. enabling 
transactive energy, virtual power plants (VPPs) and energy co-operatives.
Electricity
Wind
Flexibility
(supply/
demand)
PtL
fuels
ElecElectricity
tricity
A -.
Natural gas
Electricity
BiomassLiquid blofueis
micro -grid 1
-- micro -grid 2
r
micro -grid 3
micro -grid 5
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
258  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  56
Figure 28: Possible future energy balance for South Africa
Figure 29: Enabling universal and affordable electricity access (leapfrogging historically large, centralised 
electricity to distributed interconnected mini-grids enabled by 4IR technologies)
61 National Planning Commission (NPC), National Development Plan 2030 - Our Future-make it work. 2012.

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   259
page |  57
• Using advanced sensor platforms, AI to allow for improved homegrown, variable resource forecasting 
tools (wind/solar) to improve system integration of variable renewable energy technologies
• Intelligent automatic power system fault restoration
• Focussed RDI in emerging technologies and required business models for domestic consumption 
and exports, e.g. hydrogen (H2) production and storage, electrochemical storage, renewable energy, 
Power-to-Liquids (PtL), carbon capture utilisation and storage (CCUS).
• Minerals and materials needed and our unique advantage e.g., platinum group metals (PGMs), 
Manganese, Titanium, Vanadium, CO2, RE-based H2
• Second-life battery storage from electric mobility into stationary applications e.g., buildings, micro-
grids, transmission and distribution substations.
The opportunity to export commodities and technologies exists in the intersection between 4IR and energy.  
A few of these are listed below:
• Domestic production, export, and end-use of renewables-based hydrogen (for energy end-use as 
hydrogen or synthetic fuels, high value chemicals) including commodities and technologies
• ‘Green’ hydrogen for mobility (especially in urban environments and public transportation)
• Mini-grid solutions to enable universal, affordable energy access in Africa
•  Autonomous electric mobility (significant existing automotive manufacturing supply-chain)
• Energy storage systems (electrochemical, thermochemical, hydrogen)
• Improved efficiencies and productivity of business in South Africa resulting in increased international 
competitiveness for exports in particular sectors
A national strategic proactive approach across stakeholders is needed to take advantage of these 
opportunities to position South Africa as a leader in exporting our competitive and comparative advantage 
in resources, technologies, and commodities.
8.1.3  Agriculture 
Precision agriculture enabled by information technology is revolutionising the agricultural sector in many 
countries, optimising the use of water and ensuring that fertilizer and pesticides are applied only when needed.  
The research conducted by Accenture proposes that the combined use of biotechnology (improved seeds), 
autonomous vehicles, drones, and sensors promotes precision agriculture, will enhance the use of resources 
and increase agricultural yields. Given that there is a need to focus on communal land, KwaZulu-Natal, the 
Eastern Cape, North West 
Reskilling of agricultural labour force  it’s a necessity to align it with the technological advancement of 4.0, 
increasing investment, adopt to changing market needs and financial support to developing farmers, are key 
to improving the prospects of the sector. 
The agricultural sector is not branded as a prime career destination for most of the students in tertiary institutions 
hence a new approach to attract young talent to the sector is required. Tertiary education foundations 
occupied with rural agricultural education ought to reinforce their educational plans by including hypothesis, 
aptitudes and innovations identified with the 4IR, such as usage of Sensors, smart farmers, etc.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
260  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  58
National government and provinces, in conjunction with tertiary organizations and industry affiliations should 
cooperate in executing agri-accelerator advancement projects to fast-track learning through abilities trade 
programs with the main point being farming innovation development. This activity can likewise incorporate 
eAgroTourism CoLabs (North West University – Mahikeng Campus) focusing on smart farming, precision 
farming, farming best practices and agricultural technologies with the focus being 4IR.
It’s essential to guard against digital divide outcome in South African agricultural sector, wherein only certain 
role players benefit from 4IR opportunities. The primary necessity will be to guarantee smallholder farmers/
makers are profitable in a business sense, and delivering for a market where their items will be traded through 
the reception of 4IR Technologies, for example, Big Data, Blockchain, Machine Learning and AI to give 
beneficial bits of knowledge into cultivating tasks, drives constant operational choices and can be utilised to 
update forms for game changing plans of action. Mechanical technology, UAVs, and transport advances 
ought to be acquainted with help with making planting, collecting, handling, and bundling increasingly 
effective, and is anticipated to have a critical positive effect on ranch generation. 
8.1.4. Mining
Mining industry is at an inflection point, whereby digital technologies have the potential to unlock new ways 
of managing variability and enhancing productivity. For the country to reach Climate-smart Mining emphasis 
should be on renewable sources of energy, robots, and electric vehicles. This shift will require vast volumes of 
copper, lithium, cobalt, platinum, chrome, and manganese. 
South Africa mines some of the minerals and metals required to develop e.g. drones, batteries, wind turbines, 
smart phones, and electric vehicles –which are the products of the fourth industrial revolution. The country 
mines at least five of the 16 minerals or metals (iron ore, lead, phosphate rock, silica and titanium oxide) used 
to produce solar panels. This creates extensive value chain opportunities for South Africa to use its mineral and 
metal endowments to structurally transform the economy.
Mining is not commonly connected with dreams of a round economy (CE), where waste is changed into 
contributions for environmentally safe yields. The advancement of CE model for the mining business can 
possibly settle the moves identified with the deficiency of mineral assets, misuse of assets, and ecological 
contamination with ensuing financial benefits.
4IR technologies will manage the cost of effectiveness gains in the mining business. Remote sensors on 
independent elevated vehicles: can identify geothermal action on the investigation front, guiding and 
inspecting to those regions where there is a solid sign of an extractable asset. Underway: robots, as opposed 
to individuals, can work in perilous situations. Computerized reasoning and AI imply that rock would now be 
able to be cut rather than impacted, prompting ceaseless mining. Computerized rock-face mapping can 
be incorporated with cutting apparatus, alongside material characterisation and fracture investigation. Some 
of the mining industry’s latest technological innovations South Africa needs to adopt are:
8.1.4.1 Spatial data visualisation
Mining is facing an thrilling shift, because of the spatial (or geospatial) data, which is becoming more robust 
than ever:
62
• Three-dimensional (3D) Modelling makes a visible, life-like impression with profundity recognition that 
enables the human cerebrum to comprehend and identify with complex interrelated issues. 3D 
modelling backs firms by reconsidering the mine all the more effectively. 
• Virtual Reality (VR) is a falsely made programming environment that makes use of genuine information. 
The virtual environment inundates individuals into a client made 3-D environment. VR presents an 
improved impression to enable excavators to encounter what it resembles working in a mine. 
62   https://www.angloamerican.com/futuresmart/our-industry/technology/trends-in-modern-mining-technology
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   261
page |  59
• Augmented Reality (AR) transcends into the real-world through sounds graphics and videos that enhance 
the user’s visual space.  Thus Augmented Reality (AR) can be used, within the mining environment, to 
reduce various costs through training of virtual simulators.
By using novel technology such as spatial data effectively, the mining industry gains insights into “mine systems 
at a reduced cost and impact on the environment.”
 63 The mining industry is steadily moving in a futuristic 
direction where it is possible to virtually construct and breakdown buildings, plants, mines, and all associated 
infrastructure before even breaking ground to create a truly intelligent mine.
8.1.4.2 Geographic information systems
With the assistance of GIS, excavators can comprehend genuine issues where location and accessibility 
are critical.Geospatial information provides pertinent infromation about an object.  Through this pertinent 
information, miners can obtain invaluable information about the mine and the surrounding environment. GIS 
can provide insight to the following:
• “Mineral exploration, Geochemical and hydrology data, Report generation, Facility and tailings 
management, Sustainability and regulatory compliance”.
64
• When mining today, geospatial information programs enable us to educate mine managers and 
representatives in new manners and improve long-term comprehension of mining with virtual 
understandings of genuine environments.
8.1.5  Telecommunication
The telecommunications (telecoms) industry is playing a critical role in enabling digital transformation across 
the globe. The telecommunications ecosystem has provided the fundamental building blocks such as 
access, interconnectivity and applications that act as key enablers of the digital revolution.  Advancements 
in digital transformation and changes in consumer behaviour require all players in the telecommunications 
industry to become innovative in order to remain competitive in the market.
South Africa’s technological skills gap is hampering the ability of the country to improve competitiveness 
and performance of all relevant sectors including the ICT sector (Schofield, 2016). This gap in skills is posing 
a constraint on the need to drive heightened innovation to sustainably address the unacceptable burdens 
of poverty and unemployment (DPS, 2016). The 4IR driven by the increasingly knowledge-based economy 
has expanded the interest for particular ICT abilities to make, actualize and continue rising innovations. These 
numbers demonstrate that the South African ICT aptitudes deficiency and related environment need critical, 
engaged and increased consideration if any yearnings of turning into a worldwide contender are to be 
entertained.
Data Centre and Cloud Computing
Building up data centres and the fundamental interchange foundations to get to them is the most significant 
contribution to this value chain. There is breadth for SMME inclusion in setting up data centres and cloud 
computing facilities. Despite the fact that these facilities are mind boggling, capital intensive, SMMEs could 
cooperate with bigger players in the area, for example SITA. When the foundation has been set-up, there are 
a wide range of services and items accessible over the central framework. SMMEs have gigantic chances to 
use cloud frameworks to give a scope of particular and specialty contributions to both big and little clients. 
This is another and rising region of business, and SMMEs should create imaginative arrangements and plans 
of action (DTPS, 2017).
63   https://www.angloamerican.com/futuresmart/our-industry/technology/trends-in-modern-mining-technology
64   https://www.angloamerican.com/futuresmart/our-industry/technology/trends-in-modern-mining-technology
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
262  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  60
Digital Content
Digital content shows a great deal of chances for SMMEs, thinking about the expansion of online presence. 
Most of online substance consumed by South Africans starts abroad. It at that point becomes very important 
for government to give business visionaries the vital apparatuses and frameworks to empower them to create 
local substance and total it for dispersion purposes, for example Computerized Content Development 
Incubation Centres. The African locale likewise introduces an open door for circulation of content (DTPS, 2017).
Games and Apps
There is tremendous scope for local SMMEs to end up associated with creating Apps and Games that address 
neighborhood issues and bid toward the South African and African markets. South Africa has world-class 
programming improvement capacities and SMMEs should expand on this custom and notoriety regarding 
App and Games advancement. The most mainstream “Application Stores” are claimed by Google, Apple 
and Microsoft. This control restrains local interest in this very important circulation channel. Nearby “Application 
Stores” are important to guarantee that clients can find and download local Apps and Games. This would 
encourage circulation of nearby SMME-created content.
Cybersecurity
Given the growing complexity of connected environments, there is strong need for and diffusion of software 
and tools to strengthen cybersecurity. The security or trust dimension is an important element required to build 
citizen confidence when using digital technologies. It is important to note that ICT security is not limited to 
authentication and encryption only.
Networks of the Future
South Africa has an overall internet penetration rate of 54%, representing just over 31 million people that are 
online in the country. According to research conducted by Accenture, improving internet access could result 
in an additional 4.3 million jobs and a cumulative increase in productivity and earnings of R26.7 billion. In 
addition, society will also benefit from increased access to digital content and augmented reality (AR)/ virtual 
reality (VR) digital services. Consumers will benefit from potential time and cost savings due to integration 
of processes such as mobile payments, digital services in health care, video media, application of IoT in 
automotive, connected homes and entertainment offerings.
The key initiatives that will shape the network of the future include: 
• Alternative connectivity- There has been increasing demand for alternative connectivity to expand 
internet access to new markets and regions. South African has made significant investment in fibre 
roll-out.  
• Software defined networks – Virtualisation of the physical hardware infrastructure using technologies 
such as Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Function Virtualisation (NFV) will drive down the 
costs of the telecoms services and increase coverage. These technologies will also shape the build of 
the mobile fifth generation (5G) wireless network architecture. 
• Zero touch networks and Cyber Resilience – IoT and machine to machine (M2M) communication 
“is becoming more prevalent as more devices are connected to the network.”
65 The number of 
connected devices in South Africa is expected to reach 168.4 million in 2021, increasing from 119.2 
million in 2016. This will require more capital investment in technologies like SDN and NFV to create 
autonomous and zero touch networks that are self-optimising and provide more protection against 
cyber-attacks.
65   https://semiengineering.com/are-devices-getting-more-secure/
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   263
page |  61
8.1.6  Water and Sanitation
South Africa is confronting a few noteworthy difficulties in connection to water, both at the level of the asset 
just as in the genuine arrangement of water benefits by districts. Ongoing examinations have evaluated 
interest for water in South Africa will surpass supply by 2025 if nothing is done to enhance water assets. The 
maintainability of the area is likewise in danger because of the inadequately kept up and regularly sick-
prepared framework, general under-evaluating of water over the value chain and the falling apart nature of 
sanitation administrations in several municipalities. 
Opportunities: Good relationship with water sector partners, Well-resourced water entities, the labour force 
produces a good supply of graduate trainees, Mobilization of skills training for the water sector, Training of 
Engineers and Technicians and Utilization of Learning Academy
Opportunities for Innovation
The effective use of research and application of new technologies could hugely transform this sector. 
Partnerships need to be established between technology providers, communities and decision makers in 
order to deliver solutions that are sustainable, affordable, safe and cater for current and future needs. 
IoT enables numerous devices connected to each other to collect real-time information and send this data 
via wireless communications to centralise systems. These in turn can change and improve a wide range of 
operations. AI allows large datasets to be analysed computationally to reveal patterns which can be used to 
inform and enhance municipal decision making. 
The creation of 5G (fifth era mobile technologies) can possibly associate gadgets to the Internet and different 
gadgets, transport information much rapidly and process high volumes with least deferral. While nations and 
regions are driving ventures and undertakings to reasonably oversee water assets, it cannot be exaggerated 
the significance constraining, recycling and reusing water utilization at the individual level
With new advancements in technology like smart water meters and applications to screen home use, 
computerized advances are empowering people to all the more likely deal with their own water use. As water 
is an undeniably rare asset, endeavours to restrict, reuse and treat wastewater are critical to maintainable 
advancement. In spite of ebb and flow endeavours for water reusing or treatment, it is evaluated that over 
80% of the wastewater created by society streams once more into the environment without being dealt with 
or reused . Computerized advances could prove to be successful in the treatment and reusing of wastewater 
and key to handling the world’s water shortage catastrophe (ITU, 2018).
66
8.1.7  Smart Cities
South Africa like any other country understands that a lot needs to change in the way in which our people 
live, and access services be it from the public sector (government) or from the private sector (business). The 
sphere of government which has a direct impact to the people is local government. In order for this sphere 
to be able to serve the people there is no doubt that it needs to do this in a smart way. 
Cities would be required to make use of emerging smart technologies enable for efficient and intelligent 
ways of engaging be it with government, business and citizens. The 4IR Technology drivers affecting Smart 
Cities initiatives will mostly include artificial intelligence (AI), the internet of things (IoT), blockchain and mixed 
reality (AR and VR). 
5G becomes the glue to everything smart, it creates the super-fast highway in which all the other applications 
of a connectedness required in a smart city implementation is enabled.  Municipalities, COGTA, SALGA, 
Premier Offices, Industry, and Universities needs to start collaborating in building Smart city Concept, informed 
by SALGA Smart City Framework. The implementation of Smart cities should also include Smart Villages and 
Smart Townships.  
66   https://telecomworld.itu.int/2018-event/
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
264  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  62
8.1.8  Financial Services Sector
A strong, established sector that contributes significantly to South Africa’s GDP , financial services has remained 
robust amidst economic and policy uncertainty, global headwinds and a sustained period of poor economic 
growth. As South Africa strives to boost economic growth, the opportunity for financial services to act as a 
catalyst for growth and a force for good is significant. 
The new technology dilemma: value, speed and safety 
Emerging technologies of the 4th Industrial Revolution, such as artificial intelligence (AI), virtual reality (VR), and 
blockchain, will be embedded in the financial services industry and become mainstream. 
Financial institutions are also re-thinking their IT architectures to leverage the benefits of emerging technologies 
and to address the issues associated with their legacy systems. Facing capacity and skills constraints, many 
are attempting to run their IT transformation agenda at multiple speeds—embracing agility by using new 
technology decoupled from legacy systems while methodically unravelling legacy complexities. 
With the increased ubiquity of digital technologies and services has come an increase in cybercrime.
Crime is shifting from the physical to the online world. We expect this trend to continue as cyber criminals find 
new and innovative ways to penetrate system vulnerabilities. Governments and financial institutions have an 
obligation to stay ahead of the curve, assigning dedicated resources to prevent cybercrime and information 
theft. To date, the growing importance of data coupled with underestimation of the cybercrime threat, has 
contributed to the vulnerability of South African businesses. It is important to understand how to combat cyber 
security from a legislative perspective as well as from a consumer perspective. 
Peer-to-Peer
One specific platform type that has emerged, but has failed to reach scale as yet, is the crowd-driven or 
peer-to-peer (P2P) platform model.
These models provide alternatives to connect willing investors with investment seekers and willing lenders with 
those seeking finance. The benefits include sharing the risk of protecting assets and wealth, all while lowering 
the cost. As these services continue to mature across the value-chain, we expect participation from end 
users, traditional financial institutions and fintechs, as well as insuretechs, to grow exponentially.
Accenture’s research indicates that P2P Banking can generate R84 billion in value for industry and society by 
2026. P2P Insurance can generate R122 billion in value.
Embracing “-as-a-Service”
Nor is it feasible to build and own every conceivable digital technology or capability required for success in 
the future—e.g., data and analytics; artificial intelligence and machine learning; Internet of Things (IoT) and 
smart machines; quantum computing, etc. Financial institutions must look more and more to “-as-a-service” 
and cloud providers to enable the agility and scale required to remain relevant. They will also need to make 
difficult decisions with respect to technology and infrastructure investment and ownership. 
Journey to cloud
The benefits of cloud are plain—they include agility, speed to innovation and lower IT costs. Companies are 
now focused on when and how to move to the cloud and not if they should move to the cloud. Accenture 
research indicates that a colossal 91 percent of companies say they will be in public cloud by 2019. The 
majority of financial institutions have embarked on the journey to cloud, such as CITI and CapitalOne, with 
public cloud and multi-cloud strategies being the next wave.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   265
page |  63
Of the New Technologies, we believe that blockchain offers the highest potential as a game changer for 
the industry. Financial institutions deal with information and ledgers as a key part of their role and recognise 
the tremendous potential blockchain provides as a distributed, decentralised public ledger in revolutionising 
how information is stored, accessed, modified and validated. So far, there has been a lot of experimentation 
with blockchain, but very little practical application at scale that adds value for financial institutions and their 
customers.
8.1.9 Health Sector 
Even as digital advances begin to take life sciences to the brink of radical reinvention, healthcare continues 
to face the triple endemic challenges of lack of access, high costs and poor outcomes. Informed, tech 
savvy consumers are demanding better health services.  South Africa, a country where 80 percent of the 
populace relies on failing public health services, digital technologies can make significant difference.
Technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), analytics, Internet of Things (IoT), blockchain and cloud are 
helping to address fundamental issues, improving access, supply chain efficiencies and patient data 
management. They are also driving a revolution in healthcare and in life sciences, enabling precision and 
personalised medicine, and prompting the emergence of a new mindset around healthcare.   
These are: digitising the supply chain; telemedicine; and ‘accessible intelligence’, the ability to access and 
intelligently use data generated across the chain of care.
The technologies that will fuel these three key initiatives? They include AI, IoT and connected devices, and big 
data and analytics, which includes: - 
• Telemedicine uses audio and visual technology to connect patients and healthcare providers, provide 
remote diagnosis and implement preventative care.  
• Accessible intelligence can save lives. It can add R101 billion in value. In South Africa, there are 
over 42 different health information systems across the nine provinces of South Africa. Each province 
manages its affairs independently leading to lack of coordination between provinces and resulting in 
heavy expenditure on decentralised software systems with no interoperability. 
• A digital supply chain canaddR37 billion in value, primarily to society. It uses predictive analytics on 
data generated from healthcare supply chain information systems to facilitate demand planning and 
logistics management. Value is created through reduced administrative and overhead costs, improved 
forecasting and efficiency of ordering of drugs, and reduced out of pocket spend on tuberculosis (TB) 
and antiretroviral (ARV) drugs by citizens.
8.1.10  Manufacturing
The manufacturing sector in South Africa is in decline. Low demand, a lack of competitiveness, negligible 
economic growth and slow recovery from economic and political volatility compound to present little 
prospect of improved performance. At the same time, manufacturing across the globe is being shaken to 
its roots by the entry of disruptive digital technologies such as predictive analytics, additive manufacturing, 
machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI), and the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). These technologies 
can usher in new efficiencies, driving productivity and competitiveness. 
Seven initiatives will address the identified challenges         
The following digital initiatives will address the key challenges along the South African manufacturing value 
chain identified by our research:
• Digitally enabled manufacturing can leverage a combination of technologies—robotics, autonomous 
equipment, sensors and control towers—to automate tasks and increase efficiencies and productivity. 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
266  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  64
• Advanced analytics leverages data from sensors, smart and connected devices to capture insights, 
improve planning and decision-making, and optimise operations. In combination with other digital 
initiatives, particularly smart sensors, analytics can provide more accurate surveillance of equipment 
and assets, improving productivity and reducing risk. 
• Workforce reimagined is about building a workforce for digital. Technologies like remote assistance, 
machine learning, wearables and augmented reality support upskilling, reduce training time and 
improve productivity. 
• Digitising the supply chain through the use of RFID, sensors, supply chain control towers provides visibility 
to all stakeholders, enabling real-time monitoring of movement along the supply chain to eliminate 
bottlenecks; increase production throughput; better manage demand; and reduce inventory, warranty 
and delivery costs. 
• 3D printing makes use of custom manufacturing and in-field part printing technologies to design and 
print products and parts onsite for maintenance, repair and operations. 
• An integrated platform for collaboration and exchange of data within and across multiple value chain 
stakeholders can reduce transaction costs and time and reduce the cost of operations. 
• Digital sales use machine learning, artificial intelligence, chatbots to automate customer interaction, 
and analytics to target and customise offerings. 
Digitally-enabled manufacturing
With increased competition to South African manufacturers from imports and constrained local demand, 
increasing local productivity becomes essential. Digitally-led manufacturing can drive production cost 
optimisation, faster time-to-market and mass production of individually configured products.
An optimised combination of technologies like robotics, sensors, and autonomous machines can transform 
conventional manufacturing processes, automating repetitive tasks and creating a smart factory. Connected 
manufacturing and assembly can deliver significant benefits: 
Robotics and automation augment manual tasks, increasing throughput and delivering a 10-30 percent 
saving in workers’ time. Autonomous machines can offer a 2-20% reduction in input cost. With control towers 
monitoring processes in the plant and sensor-enabled machine-to-machine communication, plant efficiency 
is improved. Advanced Analytics
Digital Supply Chain
With global and complex supply chains emerging within advanced businesses, data—such as manufacturing 
lead times, end-to-end cost visibility, product availability data for suppliers, shipping and logistics estimates, 
and demand forecasts from end-customers—brings immediate value to a business and its partner network.  
Intelligent and digital supply chains can increase visibility across the ecosystem, allowing value chain 
participants to interact seamlessly, identify supply chain constraints and fix the major pain points, improve 
planning and, ultimately, reduce manufacturing cost and time and increase productivity.
3D Printing
Unplanned downtime costs the manufacturing industry approximately 5 percent of its revenues. By printing 
parts onsite, 3D printing can mitigate risks associated with expensive downtime in manufacturing plants by 
lowering the lead time (for inputs and parts) from a few days to a few hours.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   267
page |  65
8.2  PEOPLE AND SKILLS
“I am convinced of one thing—that in the future, talent, more than capital, will represent the critical factor 
of production.” -  Klaus Schwab, Founder: World Economic Forum
The architecture of the 4IR era has significant impact on the human capacity development ecosystems and 
institutions of work and an understanding of this shift should underpin our design of solutions for human capital 
innovation.
The issue of human capital and the future of work is currently on the global agenda for companies to consider 
the effects not just on their workforces and their recruitment and training strategies, plans and policies, but 
also on their business models – many of which stand to be completely disrupted by technological change 
such as automation and artificial intelligence.
According to the WEF, technological breakthroughs are quickly changing the work tasks that were performed 
by workers and giving over to machines more tasks – “algorithms, global markets are undergoing major 
transformations. These transformations if managed wisely could lead to a new age of good work and good 
jobs and improved quality of life for all, but if managed poorly pose the risk of widening skills gaps, greater 
inequality and broader polarization.”
67
Companies which are advanced in 4IR technologies are seeking to maximise returns through the use of 
emerging technologies – thereby improving efficiencies and better production patterns and thus expanding 
into new markets. A 2018 WEF report on the Future of Jobs found that as these enormous shifts increase in the 
workforce, the window of opportunity for proactive management of the “change is closing fast and business, 
government and workers must proactively plan and implement a new vision for the global labour market.”
68
According to Guy Ryder, Director General of the International Labour Organisation, “the world is facing a 
number of fundamental challenges, such as demographic change, low economic growth, migration, conflicts 
and environmental problems. Employment patterns are evolving fast, with new forms of employment on the 
rise, with limited job and income security, and without adequate social protection growing income insecurity, 
including among the middle-class, as well as decent work deficits have weighed heavily on perceptions of 
social justice and challenged the implicit social contract in many societies.”
While the net outlook for jobs is predicted to be positive, the reality is that there will be an initial displacement 
of jobs and a transition period in which governments, business and labour need to urgently prioritise re-skilling 
the current labour force for the future of work, consider relevant policy and social protection interventions and 
identify the levers which could provide opportunities to accelerate growth. 
It is noted in the report of the Global Commission on the Future of work that it is those workers who are least 
educated and perform work that is simple who are most unable to seize the new opportunities that may 
come with automation. It is those who are made vulnerable by a lack of education and financial means who 
would likely be most badly affected by the transition to the digital economy.
• 47% of workers in the United State are at risk of being replaced by automation
• In the ASEAN region 56% of jobs over the next 20 years will be lost to automation
• 9% of jobs in the OECD are at risk of being gobbled up by automation.
67   WEF 2018 Report on the Future of Jobs
68 https://www.uwc.ac.za/News/Pages/The-role-of-of-Universities-in-the-Digital-Era.aspx
A can trsllssd rrstwork
( ? 2" industrial Revolution)
A dacantniissd nstwas*
(3^' Industrlol Revoluon)
A distißutad network
(if°LIndustrial Revolution)
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
268  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  66
The McKinsey document prepared for the Fortune Vatican forum in 2016 and updated in 2017 paints the 
following picture:
“The world of work is in a state of flux. There is growing polarization of the labour-market opportunities between 
high and low-skill jobs. Unemployment and underemployment, especially among young people, and 
stagnating incomes for a large proportion of households are increasingly notable. Migration and its effects on 
jobs has become a sensitive political issue in many advanced economies. The development of automation 
enabled by technologies including robotics and artificial intelligence brings the promise of higher productivity; 
increased efficiencies, safety and convenience, but these technologies also raise difficult questions about 
the broader impact of automation on jobs, skills, wages, and the nature of work itself.”
69
8.2.1  The Changing World of Work
Industrial revolutions have resulted in a move from a centralised, narrow and limiting architecture of human 
capital and work, to a more distributed and augmented architecture today. As indicated in the figure below 
(Figure 30), the fourth industrial revolution is represented by a distributed network where all connections have 
equal power and market size grows. This leads to a multi-product society that is personalised. The new era of 
4IR differs from the previous era of 3IR which is represented by the dispersal of powerful centralised hubs.
Figure 30: Industrial Revolutions and Network Relationships
70
The silo thinking typical of the third industrial revolution with its powerful centralised hub-based economic 
structures will not be relevant in the fourth industrial revolution. As the fourth industrial revolution is characterised 
by the blurring of lines between cyber-physical systems, so the emerging economic architecture of the new 
era will start to reflect this reality in its structure. 
Terms such as the social economy, rural economy, green economy, creative and knowledge economy are 
being used to describe emerging sectors for the fourth industrial revolution which will manifest in future areas 
of work. These ‘’economies” span multiple sectors, for example, the creative economy refers to an economic 
system which focuses on creative qualities rather than the typical sources of land and capital and includes 
the creative industries, innovations and design from the IT, agriculture, mining and many other sectors etc. 
Increased collaboration and cross sector cooperation will be the hallmark of the fourth industrial revolution. 
The Journal of Open Innovation in an article on how to respond to the fourth industrial revolution refers to 
the “Entrepreneurial state” which “intensively and directly invests in fields whose social value is high but not 
immediately shown, such as renewable energy, social innovation, senior citizen welfare, environmental risks, 
and the resolution of disparities among ages, regions, and classes.”
71.
69 Mckinsey Global Institute: Technology, Jobs and the Future of Work (Briefing note prepared for the Fortune Vatican Forum), Dec 
2016, updated Feb 2017
70 Source: Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market & Complexity. How to respond to the fourth industrial revolution, or 
the second information technology revolution? Dynamic new combinations between technology, market and society through 
open innovation.
71 Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market & Complexity. How to respond to the fourth industrial revolution, or the second 
information technology revolution? Dynamic new combinations between technology, market and society through open 

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   269
page |  67
Some of the emerging changes to the world of work include the evolving nature of paid work, the 
dependence of knowledge work on the internet, the reduction in commuting time that has been enabled 
by the advancements in technology and the gains in higher productivity as technology increases the 
velocity of transactions possible within a given time frame.  This has also led to a world characterised by work 
intensification. Issues of reduced commuting time for workers and work-life balance come into sharp focus 
and so do the issues of greater work autonomy and flexibility. Health and safety issues also are evolving and 
a few challenges in respect of these lie in the wake. 
Most reports indicate that the untapped and underutilised labour reservoirs around the world are women, 
youth, the disabled, and aged. These pools of untapped labour can be brought into productive use by 
tapping into the potential and opportunities brought about by technological development as these do not 
require employees to work from the premises of the employer and many can use information technology 
tools and equipment to provide services efficiently to a variety of employers in shorter time and in more 
productive forms as technology trends indicate the speed productivity and velocity of work are enhanced 
by technology.
As current work skills are quickly becoming redundant , the gig economy, freelancing and growing skills 
instability are marks of the new world of work. 
In BRICS countries the response to the debates and the establishment of responses has been mixed. It 
is reported in the literature under review that in Brazil and India public interest in the issues raised by the 
proliferation of technology and the policy responses of government has been slow to pique public interest. 
It is reported that thus far in both Brazil and India national debate about various responses and the merits 
thereof has been muted even though various civil society and state actors are increasingly organising 
conferences and cohering papers and panels to discuss growing concern about air pollution and traffic 
congestion in the major urban areas of BRICS countries from India to Brazil – and in the context of discussions 
of solutions thereto, the issue of the evolving location of work and the impact of ICT on population working 
habits is increasingly rising and being discussed for the potential solutions that lie in promoting these through 
legislation and policy instruments of various kinds.
In the BRICS countries the studies that do exist indicate generally positive effects on individual performance, 
as reported in the national studies from Argentina, Brazil, India and even Japan and the United States.  These 
studies support the conclusion that technology generally has a positive effect on individual work performance. 
More studies on the impact on family life, work-life balance and society in general are recommended for 
investigation.
WEF in a position paper on the subject of a Reskilling revolution writes that “Education is and will remain critical 
for promoting inclusive economic growth and providing a future of opportunity for all. But as the technologies 
of the Fourth Industrial Revolution create new pressures on labour markets, education reform, lifelong learning 
and reskilling initiatives will be key to ensuring both that individuals have access to economic opportunity by 
remaining competitive in the new world of work, and that businesses have access to the talent they need for 
the jobs of the future. The Fourth Industrial Revolution is causing a large-scale decline in some roles as they 
become redundant or automated.”
72
Researchers indicate that many of the existing education systems even in the developed world have not 
kept pace with the needs of the economy and the technical skills revolution for the new economies. The ILO 
states that, ”the current education systems need to be examined given the arrival of the Artificial Intelligence-
based wave of technological change. Its current set up as a young-age, once for all type of system of skills 
provision is no longer sufficient when it comes to retaining workers who expect to have increasingly lengthy 
innovation
72  WEF White paper: Accelerating Workforce Reskilling for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. An agenda for leaders to shape the 
future of education, gender and work, July 2017
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
270  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  68
work careers.”73 Thus, it can be reasonably predicted that a mass revolution in education as we know it will 
occur over the next few decades as human beings respond to the skills needs of the 4th Industrial Revolution. 
Throughout the increasing proliferation of research and literature on skills and the 4IR the emphasis on the 
importance of lifelong learning is made throughout.
According to McKinsey, “Educational stems have not kept pace with the changing nature of work, resulting 
in many employers saying they cannot find enough workers with the skills they need. In a McKinsey survey 
of young people and employers in nine countries, 40 percent of employers said lack of skills was the main 
reason for entry –level job vacancies. Sixty per cent said that new graduates were not adequately prepared 
for the world of work. There were gaps in the “technical skills such as Stem subject degrees, but also soft skills 
such as communication, team work, and punctuality.”
74 Conversely, even those in work may not be realizing 
their potential. In a recent global survey of job seekers conducted by LinkedIn, 37 per cent “of respondents 
said their current job does not fully utilize their skills or provide enough challenge.”
 75 Indeed, it seems that 
technological skills will be called for when digital products and services are required. It is predicted by the 
ILO that for a while these new type skills sets will remain scarce or in short supply for decades – as policy and 
societies catch up.
Over and above technical and digital skills the following “soft” skills are critical: Complex problem-solving skills, 
Critical thinking skills, Integrative ability, People Management, Communication skills, Coordinating with others, 
Creativity, Empathy/caring, Judgement and decision-Making, Cognitive flexibility, Emotional Intelligence, 
Negotiation. It is these core competency skills that will allow workers to add value that machines cannot and 
fulfil functions and tasks that only human beings are capable of.
One of these skills is creativity, which will be a competitive advantage in the age of the robot worker. This 
competency is up from tenth place on the WEF’s list of critical skills in 2015 and now third in “2020, behind 
only critical thinking and complex problem-solving skills. Workers will need to become more creative to get 
the most out of new technologies, and to ensure their skills remain relevant in an increasingly competitive, 
shrinking global labour market.”
76
While new technologies and computerization may dispose of the requirement for specific types of labour 
and work, they will likewise open up already unheard of opportunities in enterprises that blossom with 
imagination and development. What sets humans apart from machines is creativity. Proof that mental and 
physical prosperity is foremost to imaginative reasoning will turn the memorable trade of human well-being 
for monetary development on its head. 
8.2.2  Jobs of The Future
The WEF Report of the Future of Jobs has stated that the coming years will see new work roles emerging, 
some work roles remaining stable and many becoming redundant. Existing roles expected in increase in 
demand up to 2022 include E-commerce & social media specialists, data analysts, data scientists, software 
developers, application developers i.e. tech-based jobs. Other jobs that will grow include those requiring 
people skills such as organisational development specialists, sales and marketing professionals, learning 
specialists, customer service workers, and people and culture specialists. Artificial Intelligence and machine 
learning, big data, information security analysts, blockchain specialists, robotics engineers, and human-
machine interaction designers are among some of the new specialist roles required.
73 Work for a Brighter future; Global Commission on the Future of Work; International Labour Organisation (2019) Paper Series ILO
74  McKinsey Global Institute: Skills Shift. Automation and the Future of the Workforce, May 2018
75 McKinsey Global Institute: Skills Shift. Automation and the Future of the Workforce, May 2018
76   https://www.creativenz.govt.nz/blog/creativity-will-boost-career-prospects-in-the-fourth-industrial-revolution
FRAMEWORK
CURRICULUM
INNOVATION
MASSIFICATION OF
CIIANGING
MODELS FOR
WORK
ItisTITUM)4,4,
O
HUMAN
CENTRED
9P#
SKILLS
m
DIGITAL LITERACY
Afrotuturien
V Order needsG
HIGH COORDINATING
GROWTHMECHANISMS
SECTORS
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   271
page |  69
8.2.3  South Africa Diagnostic
Aspects of the South African People and Skills diagnostic include the people (their skills, employability, quality 
of life), institutions of work, learning and development (the skills ecosystem and the future of work (emerging 
sectors)) as well as an enabling environment required to facilitate human capacity development (legislation, 
governance) (Figure 31).
 Figure 31: Human Capital and Future of Work Framework
South Africa has 58,78 million people
77. This figure is projected to grow to 64,4 million by 2030 78. Two thirds 
of the South African population are below the age of 35 years 79. This is often presented as an opportunity 
because more people are available for productive work. The current fact is that too many of these young 
people are without work. Moreover, a lot of South Africa’s young people are not yet equipped to produce 
productive work in the context of the 4IR.
According to a study by the World Bank, only a quarter of South African secondary school learning are work 
ready. This is compared to 96% in Singapore
80. 
A factor critical to agile response to 4IR is the levels of digital literacy in the country. The percentage of the 
adult population that uses a smartphone in South Africa is at 60%, and one assumes general proficiency in 
the use of these devices. The number of internet users from the total population is 54%.
81 Basic digital literacy 
skill levels are low. The patterns of proficiency show higher digital literacy in urban areas and lower levels in rural 
areas. Unequal access to connectivity and high data costs significantly impact the access of the majority 
of the South African population to maximise the enabling effects of technology in their learning, homes and 
work environments. Figure 32 gives a high-level view of the human capacity ecosystem in South Africa.
77   StatsSA
78   worldpopulationreview.com
79   Department of Higher Education and Training 2019
80   World Bank 2019
81   Nedlac: Futures of Work in South Africa, March 2016. Institute for Futures Research

SA'S HUMAN CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ECOSYSTEM
48%
yra
In ECO
29%dvarall
83% youllr
UNEMPLOYED
Large
numbers wileLaekagelrcm
Primary loccrtary
Secondary83%
drap oui rabSmall
Numbers
on ECO
Top altilla
Maya country
NighSC%
drop ouidropout rale
rat.
Qualified
bui cani
end job
OLDER
POPULATION
CHANGING WORLD
OF WORK
Internantpe
ships
App renliceahlpo
Only 18%
malriculonla
noter univers
SECONDARY
?C UNIVERSITY
Numbara moving
INough ayajam
Capra lcatep.+
PRNArE 8
l:bM4UhdyV
CCU.EGESSACA
ACTO / CNE/
lM1ALUSI
Retrench mani
8
lob shoddg
Top skill
0.111,
eelaloses
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
272  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  70
Figure 32: SA’s Human Capacity Development Ecosystem
While the environment is more complex than is possible to illustrate, the diagram is intended to show the 
public skills ecosystem for human capacity development, as is it the public education system that serves the 
majority of South Africans, and our logic is that it is in this context that interventions to leverage 4IR will have 
the most social and economic impact. The diagram also shows the leakages of human capacity from our 
system. 
8.2.3.1 Challenges in the South African Education System
South Africa’s public education system is severely underperforming in equipping learners with the necessary 
skills to become productive labour participants. The mushrooming of private schools is a consequence of this 
under-performance. Unfortunately, too few can afford a private education option.
ECD
Almost half of South African children do not have access to early childhood development opportunities. This 
puts many young South Africans at a learning disadvantage even before they enter the formal education 
system. The StatsSA 2016 Report on Early Childhood Development estimates that 46,9% of children (age 
0 – 6) are not attending an education institution. Recent pronouncements by government to prioritise this 
sector will assist to address this issue. Critical competency skills such as creative thinking, critical thinking and 
problem solving are hugely impacted by the cognitive development which takes place in the foundation 
phase of a child’s education (up to 7 years) and the optimal time for developing this ability in the pre-school 
and foundation phase years.
Basic Education
Our primary education system is the place where the highest numbers of people are present in the system. It 
is in the ECD and foundation phases that we have the maximum opportunities to impact our human capital 
development in terms of competency skills. There is a small leakage of human capital from the system 
between primary and secondary school, and another significant leakage during secondary school. It is 

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   273
page |  71
estimated that 60% of learners who started grade one drop out before grade twelve. Most of the dropout 
happens in grades eleven and twelve. The human capacity leakage here goes into the youth unemployment 
pool or into low end jobs requiring unskilled labour. The weight of joblessness is concentrated among the 
young (aged 15–34 years) as they represent 63,4% of the absolute number of jobless people. Just about 4 in 
each 10 youngsters in the work force do not have an occupation, with the joblessness rate inside this group 
at 39,6% in the first quarter of 2019.
82
Despite the numerous challenges and hard realities facing our formal education system, there are some 
encouraging moves afoot to align the current Basic Education System with the needs of the 4th Industrial 
revolution. The Department of Basic Education began a process in 2015 of preparing for 4IR, which included 
having the current curriculum assessed for relevance. This was done in conjunction with the Brookings Institute. 
The findings were that our curriculum adequately covers the four competencies used as a benchmark for 21 
century-ready curricula i.e. critical thinking and problem solving, creativity and innovation, collaboration and 
working as a team, communication and digital literacy. It may be said that although these competencies 
are embedded in our curriculum, as a country we are not seeing the results. This points to the problem 
potentially lying with the delivery and teaching of the curriculum as the point of breakdown.
In addition to assessing the curriculum, the Department of Basic Education (DBE) has also developed a 
coding and robotics curriculum for grades R – 3. DBR reported that most countries start this type of curriculum 
later in the schooling journey and South Africa is being lauded for starting this intervention at an earlier stage. 
In 2020 the coding and robotics curriculum for grades 4 – 9 will be developed.
A new streaming model for secondary education is being developed in an attempt to create pathways for 
learners to pursue a variety of academic, vocational and occupational directions at school level. In some 
ways this strategy makes the current role of the TVET colleges redundant, or at least requires the TVET system 
to operate at a higher qualification level to promote continuity from secondary to tertiary to the job market. 
There is also a danger in the implementation of the streaming option that the current inequalities in terms of 
the spread of skills will persist and in fact be exacerbated.
Challenges, as expressed by the DBE, in implementing these changes include a lack of resources (human 
capital expertise, strategic capacity, financial resources), teacher re-orientation and training and direct 
linkages to industry to facilitate job market uptake for school leavers.
The public schooling system does not have an overt focus on creating learner competency in creativity, 
critical thinking and problem solving. In order to have creative thinking, whole brain thinking is required. 
The exclusion of the arts as a priority learning area, taught by qualified practitioners is a factor in limiting 
the creative thinking and problem-solving ability of youth. The inclusion of STEAMIE (Science, Technology, 
Engineering, Arts, Mathematics, Innovation & Entrepreneurship) subjects is becoming a focus worldwide as 
preparation for 21st century skills, where the arts and humanities’ role in facilitating whole brain development 
and creative thinking elevates learning of STEM subjects. In South Africa, where STEM is at the beginning stages 
of being introduced, we have the opportunity to implement STEAMIE approaches from the outset.
8.2.3.2 Higher Education and Training
The end of the secondary phase represents the next human capital leakage. According to the Department 
of Higher Education and Training (DHET 2019), between 2010 and 2017, the proportion of learners achieving 
matriculation with bachelor’s pass increased by five percentage points from 24% in 2010 to 29% in 2017 
(Figure 33).
82   StatsSA, www.statssa.gov.za
200,000
180,000
160,000
140,000
120,000
100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
0
2010 20112012201320142015 2016 2017
126,371120,767 136,047171,755150,752 166,263 162,374153,610N Bachelor Pass
N Math >50%50,19541,58651,231 63,15150,365 53,588 56,55554,359
-% Bachelor Pass24%24%27% 31%28%26%27%29%
-%Math>50%19% 19% 23%26%22%20%21%22%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
274  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  72
Figure 33: Number and percentage of learners achieving matriculation  
with bachelor’s pass and Mathematics (DHET 2019)
Mathematics and Science subjects remain elusive. This poor foundation impacts negatively on the types 
and quality of skills entering the labour market. In a report commissioned by the Centre for Development 
and Enterprise (CDE) on the quality of education in South Africa in 2013, it is concluded that South Africa’s 
level of performance, measured in the maths and literacy categories, is substantially lower than the required 
curriculum levels, as well as being below most African and all of the middle-income countries participating 
in similar studies. Recent assessments of the South African education system showed that 78% of grade four 
learners in South Africa fell below the lowest levels on the Progress in International Reading Literacy Study 
(PIRLS) 2016 tests. This essentially means they cannot understand what they are reading. South Africa was 
ranked 50 out of 50 countries surveyed, coming in just behind Egypt and Morocco.
83 
The nature of matriculation (Grade 12) pass rates, especially the marker of the quantity of bachelor’s passes, 
gives a sign of the potential pool accessible to enter post-school education and training establishments, 
particularly in specialized sectors. The majority of the ICT skills require mathematics as a prerequisite, which 
puts South Africa in a position where regardless of the high number of youth we have, not enough are eligible 
to be skilled in these critical fields to meet the 4IR ICT skills demand. 
he current higher education/ tertiary skills ecosystem in South Africa, comprised of Universities, Technical 
and Vocational Education and Training Colleges (TVETs), Community Education and Training Colleges, SETAs, 
Employers (incl. SMMEs) and Collaborations (Multi-stakeholder provision) (Figure 34).
83   http://theconversation.com/south-africa-has-a-reading-crisis-why-and-what-can-be-done-about-it-88711

S
U
P
P
L
Y
LEARNER
TVET College
Community
College
s
E
T
A
EMPLOYER
c
c
c
Manager/
Professional
Artisan Middle
Level
Elementary
D
E
M
A
N
D
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   275
page |  73
Figure 34: Higher Education Skills Ecosystem
The ecosystem is designed with the Seta’s and TVETs at the centre of the model and is designed to fit the 
requirements of a third industrial revolution economy. It is also characterised by a “silo” mentality and the 
speed at which the entities are able to adapt and change curricula, understand the needs of the workplace 
and create accredited training solutions is questionable. The TVET system, although identified in WEF and 
other literature as becoming pivotal structures for 4IR skills and training, has not been effective in delivering its 
mandate in South Africa and a complete overhaul of this system would need to be engaged.
There is a challenge on the supply side with massive leakages from the secondary education system. On the 
positive side, South Africa invests substantial resources into education and training, both from a government 
and private sector point of view. The country also has an extensive education reach in terms of the entities 
above being spread throughout all nine provinces, and although there are infrastructure challenges, there is 
an extensive skills network in place which can be leveraged to leapfrog skills to mass recipients. The question 
is how to maximise the current infrastructure while identifying the pivot point in this ecosystem to shift it to be 
relevant, efficient and agile for skills delivery in the fourth industrial revolution.
Approximately 18% of matriculants go to universities, but half of these drop out.  University enrolments in 
2016 were at approximately 1.1 million, TVET colleges at 700 000 with approximately 160 000 are enrolled at 
Community Colleges and 90 000 at private institutions. TVET completion rates were approx. 60%, Community 
College completion rates were 36% and the completion rate at Seta supported programmes was 72%. 
84 
The majority of youth end up forming part of the pool of unemployed youth or unskilled labour. According 
to StatsSA approx. 3.3 million (32,4%) out of 10.3 million young people aged between 15-24 are not in 
employment, education or training.
Yet another leakage happens after accredited skilling through tertiary channels as according to StatsSA, 
the graduate unemployment rate is 33.5% for those aged 15-24 and 10% for those aged 25-34. These 
graduates are unable to find work and join the ranks of the unemployed. There is also a loss at this point as 
those who are able to leave the country with their skills to work overseas. Much has been written of late about 
the sharp rise in skilled South Africans leaving the country. It is difficult to quantify this leakage accurately as 
data on South Africa’s brain drain is not current. It is however agreed that there is a significant loss of human 
capital to emigration. 
84   Statistics on Post-School Education & Training in South Africa: 2016

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
276  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  74
At present, the South African youth are most affected by the relatively weak performance of the South African 
economy. By virtue of stagnated growth, coupled with a skills mismatch, youth are excluded from being 
absorbed into the workforce constituency. The current youth unemployment rate bears testimony to this 
occurrence. This places the future of South Africa in a vulnerable position, since the critical mass of labour 
force lies within the youth population. 
Systemic Structural Issues in the Skills Ecosystem
Educator Ken Robinson (Figure 35) in his book, Creative Schools, states that “Our current education system is 
a construct of the third industrial revolution. It was developed in response to the demands of a 3IR economic 
system. The problems of the current education system are not accidental by-products of standardised 
education; they are a structural feature of these systems. They were designed to process people according 
to particular conceptions of talent and economic need and were bound to produce winners and losers in 
just those terms.”
85
We must guard against making changes in the existing system which are not portable and attempt to initiate 
changes which are catalytic to structural change, as it is inevitable that the education system will evolve 
structurally to reflect the architecture of the 4th industrial revolution over time. Thought must be given to 
flexibility, agility, speed of accreditation, integration of learning streams, mobility of learners, remote content 
delivery and cognitive flexibility and the use of technology to enable the efficiency of the skills delivery system.
3RD INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 
STRUCTURE
3IR EDUCATION SYSTEM STRUCTURE
Industrialism needed more manual 
workers than university graduates
Built like a pyramid with broad base of compulsory elementary 
education for all, smaller sector of secondary education and 
narrow apex of higher education
Purpose of industrial manufacturing 
is to produce identical versions 
of the same products. Items that 
don’t conform are thrown away or 
re-purposed
Mass education systems designed to mould students to certain 
requirements. As a result, not everyone makes it through the system 
and some are rejected by it
Industrial processes demand 
compliance with specific rules and 
standards
Standards movement in education is based on compliance in 
curriculum teaching and standardised assessment
Industrial processes are linear. Raw 
materials are turned into products 
through sequential stages, each 
with some form of testing as a 
gateway to the next
Mass education is designed as a series of stages from primary 
to high school to higher education with students organised into 
separate year groups and progress through the system in batches 
defined by date of birth. Periodic tests determine who goes down 
which route and when
Industrial production is related 
to market demand. As it rises 
and falls manufacturers adjust 
production to meet it
Admittance to universities was tightly controlled as industrial 
economies need comparatively few administrative and 
professional workers. 
In more recent times the demand for intellectual labour has grown 
and the doors to universities have been flung open in increase the 
flow of graduates into the economy.
85   Creative Schools, Robinson K. & Aronica L, 2016
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   277
page |  75
3RD INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 
STRUCTURE
3IR EDUCATION SYSTEM STRUCTURE
Time is organised around the 
division of labour (factories)
In high schools the day is usually segmented into regular chunks of 
time and everyone changes tasks and rooms when the bell rings. 
Teachers specialise in specific subjects and move from class to 
class in separate segments
Industrial processes commonly 
overlook the value of raw materials 
that are not relevant to what is 
being made
Preoccupation with particular subjects and types of ability means 
that students’ other talents and interests are systematically 
marginalised
Most industrial processes generate 
huge amounts of waste ad value 
by-products
Education reflects this in the huge number of drop outs, 
disengagement, low self esteem and limited employment 
opportunities for those who don’t succeed in the system
Industrial processes can create 
catastrophic problems in the 
environment. It’s often left to other 
to clean up the mess (externalities)
Students who feel alienated by the current education system 
of standardisation and testing and exit the system become the 
responsibility of themselves and others (unemployment benefits, 
social programmes, etc.)
Figure 35: Third Industrial Revolution Education System 
Source: Creative Schools, Ken Robinson and Lou Aronica
South Africa has a robust labour environment and ideological tensions exist in terms of the redistribution 
vs growth debates. There is currently a low growth rate, high unemployment and huge recent job losses 
in several sectors including banking and mining. The changing world of work and the weak state of our 
economy causes leakages at the work stage of the system due to retrenchments and job shedding, as well 
as highly skilled individuals taking better offers outside of South Africa. There is a need to re-skill workers whose 
jobs are being made redundant by technology and the changing business models brought about by the 
fourth industrial revolution. How do we re-skill and for which jobs? Who is responsible? It is critical that solutions 
for the unemployed, retrenched and workers whose jobs are under threat in the context of the fourth industrial 
revolution are sought in the short term while planning for medium and long term impact the changes the 
fourth industrial revolution is bringing to industries. 
Many of the unemployed have ventured into starting small businesses and survivalist enterprises. While the 
South African government has put a strong focus on SMME sector support, this is still a struggling sector and, in 
many cases, has not yielded quality of life and decent work. There are inadequate social protection systems 
and incentives for entrepreneurs, high barriers to entry through bureaucracy and a lack of venture and risk 
capital pools to leverage growth. 
Another pool of human capital that remains disconnected from the system is the aged population. Although 
South Africa’s median age is currently low, research points to the portion of people aged 55 and older 
increasing significantly. In South Africa these are some of the most vulnerable people in our society with 
unsuitable skills, not economically active, in poor health and with limited social protection networks. With 
South Africans living longer the role of a system that supports and enables economic participation and the 
development by educational institutions of short courses and further training interventions focused on the 
development of entrepreneurial intelligence and other skills of people aged 40 and above is important. 
86
86   Using Futures Studies Methodologies to Explore the Economic Participation of  the Older Cohorts of South Africa’s Population 
Towards 2030: Andre Roux, Doris Vijoen, 2018.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
278  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  76
To adequately link our entire human capital pool into productive, decent work and allow quality of life for 
all, a comprehensive view of the entire human capital system must be developed, and the leverage points 
identified which can be accelerated by 4IR. The approach must be inclusive and 4IR technologies also 
provide an opportunity to address issues of disability and access.
It must also be acknowledged that while skills are foundational for human capacity development, the 
underpinning areas of health and wellness, nutrition and prenatal care, access facilitated by transport systems 
and infrastructure, digital connectivity and affordable data, as well as crime, gender-based violence, safety 
and security, are all enabling factors for productive learning and work.
8.2.4  Changing world of work in SA
South African exists in the global context which impacts on the future of work. At the same time the country 
has a local context of unemployment, inequality, ideological tension with regards to economic approaches 
and slow economic growth.South Africa is one of the countries that are most vulnerable to 4IR disruptions. 
If one considers the latest Human Capital Index (HCI) figures from a World Bank study, it shows that South 
Africa’s HCI is just over 0.4, similar to that of Benin and Malawi. The significant difference is that South Africa 
has a larger GDP per capita. This means that South African still has economic opportunity, but the majority 
of its citizens are not equipped to take full advantage of this opportunity. South Africa ranks poorly with life 
expectancy and inequality and ranks average on wellbeing and ecological footprint. 
As the world takes note and stock of the effects, patterns, innovations and changes that have been brought 
about by the digital revolution of the 21st Century, South Africa stands poised to learn from international 
best practice  and world-class thought on how to harness the beneficial effects of digital and ICT changes 
as well as a trend towards automation and the use of artificial intelligence to, at once resolve its perennial 
problems of high unemployment, decent jobs, inequality and poverty. At the same time, the country has a 
unique opportunity to take stock of our vast potential in the form of our human capacity, identify opportunities 
consistent with promoting a human centred, Afro-centric strategy for the future and look at ways to coordinate 
the substantial existing work and platforms established for this purpose in the country already.
The advent of the 4th Industrial Revolution (4IR) in South Africa brings with it many exciting opportunities, 
while at the same time, creates a degree of anxiety. Given the current unemployment rate, those who 
are still employed feel uneasy about the fate of their employment status when considering the effects that 
automation will have on the economy. This has a detrimental effect on the psyche of an individual due to the 
satisfiers of their first order needs being jeopardised. 
In general, the South African workforce could be classified into two categories viz. knowledge workers and 
manual workers. The former refers to individuals who use theoretical and analytical skill sets, acquired through 
formal training, to develop products and services. The latter refers to individuals who use their “hands” to 
perform their work. 
Work that has a high potential to be automated includes physical manual labour, machine operations and 
manoeuvring, technical equipment maintenance, processes and analytics. As it is observed workers in the 
lower to middle levels will be more likely to be the first affected. About 60% of the labour force in South Africa 
occupies roles consisting largely of automatable tasks. The majority of employers in South Africa say that less 
than 25% of their employees are ready to work with new technologies and machines.
In order to develop an all-encompassing and sustainable roadmap for the future of work in the South African 
context, both of the above-mentioned work force classifications must be considered. The execution of the 
roadmap ought to be planned in a phased approach which deals with the current status of the South African 
workforce as well as the development of unemployed youth towards being absorbed into the industries of 
the future. 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   279
page |  77
The WEF Africa Skills Initiative states that “The key challenge for the region entails reshaping countries’ skills 
development agendas in line with their exposure to the jobs landscape of the future. While a large cluster of 
African countries currently have a comparatively low capacity to adapt to the requirements of future jobs, 
their relative exposure to these trends, at least for now, is also still somewhat limited. These economies have 
a window of opportunity for engaging in long-delayed reforms and their efforts should particularly focus on 
strengthening basic education as well as building a strong TVET system to lay a good foundation for the 
future.”
87
It further states, “a second group of countries—including Kenya and South Africa—have a somewhat higher 
capacity to adapt but are also more immediately exposed to the job disruptions of the Fourth Industrial 
Revolution. In these countries, urgent reskilling and upskilling efforts are needed, focusing in particular on 
strengthening higher education and adult learning.”
South Africa has a highly structured skilling ecosystem but there is a question as to whether it is flexible and 
agile enough to be responsive to the current skills development needs. The current skilling approach in South 
Africa focuses more on those entering the workforce for the first time and those who are unemployed. The 
current skills programmes emphasize more on the specific-occupation technical skills vs the critical cross-
cutting skills. The current skills development model acknowledges clear boundaries between learning centres 
and workplace. The cross-cutting soft skills are skills that cannot necessarily be developed through a school 
curriculum. Most of them can be developed by immersing a learner in real life environment. This then calls for 
an approach where there is blurring of the lines between learning centres and workplace. There is therefore 
a need to revise the current skills development model.
There are numerous industry programmes for skills development developed within companies as they 
grapple with the changing skills landscape. Professional development plans need to prioritise competency 
skills/soft skills in order to prepare professionals for the changing world of work. Education and industry 
partnerships have also been established. The Department of Higher Education is partnering with the DTIC 
and the manufacturing industry, for example, to establish skills centres for skilling and reskilling. Centres of 
specialisation have been established for skills transfer. The DTIC is also partnering with the CSIR and industry to 
establish “learning factories” in several provinces. 
A national digital skills strategy has been developed by the Department of Communications, intended to 
provide a framework for the prioritisation of critical digital skills necessary for 4IR.
The Department of Higher Education and Training is currently reviewing the national Human Resource 
Development strategy via a task team established for this purpose. Part of the task team’s mandate is to 
ensure this strategy is 4IR aligned.
If one takes into consideration the rapid changes and advancement in technology, there is a need to also 
focus on those workers who are about to lose their jobs due to automation.
Africa’s CEOs refer to inadequate comprehension of the disruptive changes in progress as the single greatest 
obstruction to future workforce planning, trailed by asset limitations and deficient arrangement of firms’ talent 
procedures with their more extensive innovation techniques. Joint effort among business and the education 
sector is likewise restricted. Moreover, there is generally little cooperation among the organizations that are 
trying to address aptitudes gaps in their very own workforces just as the communities around them, bringing 
about uncoordinated, possibly inefficient, endeavours.
South Africa has been participating in global and international forums that have been seized with these issues 
and has begun to contemplate serious policy options to optimize the country’s response to the looming 
challenge. Many industry initiatives and government initiatives are underway, along with industry-government 
87  World Economic Forum: The Future of Jobs and Skills in Africa. Preparing the region for the fourth industrial revolution. WEF 
(Executive Briefing), May 2017
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
280  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  78
partnerships to look at these issues. A concern is the silo approach and potential duplication of resources with 
these interventions being developed in isolation of a broader human capacity country strategy.
The issue of legislation and policy in the context of creating jobs in the digital era has been extensively 
written about. The report by the African Development Bank identified education and research development, 
public multi-disciplinary spaces, digital infrastructure, business registration, finance for innovation and 
entrepreneurship, access to local and pan-African markets, intellectual property rights and taxation as areas 
that need policy review in order to foster digital transformation and create job
88. Furthermore, there are 
specific guidelines outlined by the International Labour Organisation on how the gig-economy should be 
promoted and integrated into mainstream work by creating and recognising specific categories of work into 
law
89. This is likely to have an impact on other pieces of legislation such as taxation.
Global 4IR trends will impact different sectors and industries in different ways. The Nedlac Research reference 
Group commissioned research into emerging trends in 12 industries as part of their “Futures of Work in South 
Africa” report, this includes sectors such as healthcare, the informal sector, energy, mining, agri-processing, 
education, transport, public sector, services and financial sectors.
90 
8.2.5  SA 4IR Opportunities, Centres of Excellence 
Ensuring that South Africa’s greatest asset, its people, are adequately prepared for and receive maximum 
benefit from the 4th Industrial Revolution presents a challenging and complex task. The country has substantial 
inequality gaps, high unemployment levels (particularly among the youth) and other associated socio–
economic problems. However, the 4th industrial Revolution also provides unprecedented opportunities for 
South Africa to leapfrog and mainstream historically marginalised citizens. The things that mattered in the past 
may not be the foundations upon which we build a sustainable 4IR strategy. And despite the commentary 
on technology, knowledge in Artificial intelligence and other related 4IR technologies may not be enough to 
propel South Africa into the imminent 4IR future.
The Commission is of the opinion that the initiatives to meet the 4th Industrial Revolution not be interpreted 
as adjusting humanity to the new landscape – but rather transitioning societies and people to better cope in 
the new digital economy and to ensure that a greater diversity of people and previously marginalised sectors 
increasingly participate in the world of work in the interests of economic growth and human progress. Thus, 
the improvement and development in the living standards and conditions of workers while safeguarding their 
human rights, is a great focus. Stepping up investment in institutions, policies and actions that will support 
people through the future of work transitions is a major principle contained and explained in the position 
papers of the Global Commission on the Future of Work. 
Currently, the South African 4IR Human is ambitious and dreams of a better life. They are, however, excluded 
from the mainstream economic opportunities and the fact that they do not have the knowledge and skills to 
compete globally makes it harder to find a job, earn an income and make choices that better their lives. The 
4IR context does not make things easier, it makes it even harder. This is why this paper call for a core focus 
on human capacity development. One of the most important objectives of South Africa’s 4IR should be to 
re-integrate the South African 4IR Human into the thrust of the main economic engine.
This requires a human centred agenda for responding to the 4IR in a South African context in order to 
capitalises on our unique strengths and the vast demographic dividend we have in the form of our youth. We 
need to position South Africa’s competitive advantage as one of human capacity, supported by technology. 
South Africa and the rest of Africa are positioned to provide the world with the human skills that are needed for 
the 4IR with technology as an enabler. This requires radical shifts in our current human capacity ecosystems 
88   African Development Bank: Creating Decent Jobs – Strategies, Policies and Instruments, 2019
89 International Labour Organisation: The rise of the “just-in-time workforce”: On-demand work, crowdwork and labour protection in 
the “gigeconomy”, 2016
90 Nedlac: Futures of Work in South Africa, March 2016. Institute for Futures Research
PEOPLE
DECENT & SUSTAINABLE
WORK
AH U M A N
CENTRED AGENDA
I1,m, .r
Access larMeranl gbeHr MlNeno Namlln nom ECO
lo aid asa
EmpoYrer,' yolan ó uomen to oarV(¢att In IM
economy
'e:nncbecal 4 Noon.ems la
e
mer needs
.rul >reeaelnWn rmrcsançnç .wYd erwp1 o SA
¡NESTING IN THE INETTVTONE Of WORK
inalln4opl muneaseo M doyens worn me l ryL
sera,
nomole ancra owgw
S
o collect. reaeaenlasan
01905e1f andLOY0
Dwalog eadOand patsies to adegdasaly
acconrmsale Ina [anuaq song 0,905
INVESTING 94 DECENT II SUSTAINABLE WORK
7.100m91no and Innentannç enrmnrenen.nkln
hwmlry n,lea. digoscltoe a4 .eapdmca rU Ile
emery og areas of work in AIR iprean economy tonal
economy seamier economy)
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   281
page |  79
(including re-thinking the architecture of the skills ecosystem to reflect the structure of the 4IR, accelerating 
upskilling and plugging upskilled youth directly into high growth market sectors and jobs of the future, re-skilling 
the existing workforce and facilitating changing models for work). The response needs to be Afrocentric while 
globally relevant and competitive, while meeting the first order needs of citizens.
South African business body BUSA put it this way in their presentation before the International Labour Organisation 
(ILO);” The principle of a human-centred approach is fully endorsed – this should be at the level of substantive 
outcomes, rather than modality. Put another way, the future of work should aim to deliver outcomes that are 
human-centred and that put the wellbeing of people and societies at their core. To achieve this outcome, 
the recommendations need to be viewed hand in glove with business requirements and emerging trends. 
A human-centred approach, when driven in isolation of business and country realities, will fail – it has to be 
firmly rooted in a human-centred approach that interconnects on going and emerging business and country 
needs.”
This human centred agenda aligns with the framework developed by the Global Commission on the Future 
of Work. The below image (Figure 36) shows an adaptation of this framework, to make it more relevant to a 
South African context.
Figure 36: Proposed Agenda for Human Capital Development (adapted from Global Commission on the 
Future of Work’s framework, with a specific focus on implementation in the SA context)
A recent report on the future of work by Accenture
91 encourages countries, like South Africa to begin to 
proactively take action to prevent the marginalisation of people who currently have a lower base of skills 
and would be rendered vulnerable and marginal by the digital economy. Their research found that the most 
vulnerable workers typically have a limited financial safety net and lower job security and lower proficiency 
in high demand skills, and they have unequal access to the kind of education that would assist them to 
transition to the digital economy. New skilling must therefore be developed for these vulnerable workers and 
further, research and investment is needed to better support workers to transition to the digital economy. 
These workers require proactive support and their training must emphasise future skills needs. According 
to Accenture, there is a need to help workers to first envision the future of work, and themselves within it. 
Next, it is necessary to help workers to expand their access to relevant formal and informal learning and 
training opportunities to grasp the new skills sets required. Further, workers ought to be assisted to simulate and 
experience the new forms of work and new roles once a certain level of proficiency in the new skills set had 
been attained and or acquired. Accenture argues that new skilling must be developed and taken seriously 
to prevent the social fallout that results from economic exclusion. Employers cannot quantify the impact  AI 
91 https://www.accenture.com/_acnmedia/pdf-90/accenture-inclusive-future-of-work-full-report.pdf

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
282  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  80
technology will have on the workforce. This creates uncertainty for workers, 57% of whom worry that their skills 
will become obsolete and 41% of who doubt their ability to manage increasingly complex digital tasks. In 
fact, only 34% of workers feel very confident in their skills and ability to work with intelligent technologies. In 
addition, market demand transparency compounds the problem further concerning opportunities.
Jobs, knowledge and manual, becoming obsolete ultimately results in retrenchment. In most instances, those 
who have been affected possess skills and expertise that are limited to the nature of work that they have been 
involved in. This leaves one with very few alternatives for re-employment. A viable solution for this problem lies 
in the establishment of alternative economies. In the global context, this alternative or emerging economies 
have been identified as the creative economy, circular economy and the social economy. By harnessing 
their already acquired skills, expertise and experience via re-skilling and upskilling interventions, employment 
opportunities may be created within these alternative economies. These could be in the form of formal 
employment or entrepreneurship. Through this process, products and services could then be developed, 
such that they resonate with the business requirements of incumbent industries, resulting in a supplier-buyer 
relationship between the old and new economies. 
As presented in Figure 37, there are inter-relationships between each of the alternative economies wherein 
sustainable business ventures may reside. For example, consider the accessibility of rural areas to news, 
advertising and public announcements through digital mediums of communication. The establishment of a 
digital marketing company, that identifies rural communities as their target market, would find itself in both the 
creative economy as well as the social economy. Through leveraging existing 4IR technologies, such a digital 
marketing company could serve as a bi-directional bridge between mainstream economies and rural areas. 
There are numerous opportunities that exist in the South African context which are similar to those mentioned 
in the example above. As markets and economies grow, these entities have the potential of being absorbed 
into the value stream of the incumbents by means of acquisition, joint venture or the like.
Figure 37: Future of work ecosystem
Our country, South Africa, not only has to innovate its curriculum design and adapt the way that it creates 
and prepares its young people for the new world of work, South Africa also has to consider the significant 
economic significance of what is happening in the context of low growth and major skills and social backlogs 
like abnormally high structural unemployment. South Africa has to examine and contend with creating the 
challenge of generating new skills for the new era while dealing with a massive skills backlog from the industrial 
era – and give meaning to the belief and mantra that no citizen should be left behind.
Circular 
Economy
Creative 
Economy
Social 
Economy
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   283
page |  81
The critical South Africa mass labour force lies within the youth population however, this demographic is 
predominantly unemployed. To address this problem, competitive advantages that lie within the youth 
population need to be identified and exploited. For instance, survivalist ingenuity coupled with the know-how 
of social media may provide opportunities for youth in the digital marketing space; a sector that has been 
identified by big business as a considerable channel to reach potential customers. The booming content 
production, media industries and creative industries (animation, gaming, virtual reality, augmented reality, 
music production) in Africa also provide accessible ‘’onramps’’ for unemployed youth. The platform economy 
and monetising digital content are familiar work environments for these “digital natives”, and with targeted 
skills programme could yield direct uptake in the gig economy in the short term. The sheer numbers of youth 
and their availability to be skilled, creates an opportunity for South Africa to become a nett exporter of skills 
and lead in the digital economy, similar to countries such as Bangladesh and India.
The current transformations under way in the world of work in South Africa have flexibility yet no security, 
therefore demanding the reinforcing and rejuvenation of the foundations overseeing work, including the 
foundation of a Labour Guarantee, extending time power, reviving aggregate portrayal and harnessing 
innovation for better than average work. These means are important to shape a fate of work with social 
equity, manufacture pathways to formalization, lessen disparity and working neediness, upgrade security and 
ensure the poise of work.
Labour Guarantee
New ways must be found to manage the cost of satisfactory security to all specialists, regardless of whether 
they are in all day business, executing errands on the web, occupied with locally situated generation or 
dealing with a brief agreement. All specialists in all types of business ought to be ensured similar social and 
basic rights, including a “sufficient living compensation, most extreme cut-off points on working hours and 
assurance of well-being and safety at work.” Collective agreements or laws and regulations should raise this 
protection floor.
The business relationship remains the focal point of work assurance. There is a need to survey and where 
important, explain duties and adjust the extent of laws and guidelines to guarantee successful security for 
labourers in a work relationship. Simultaneously, all specialists, paying little respect to their authoritative plan 
or business status, should similarly appreciate satisfactory work insurance to guarantee accommodating 
working conditions for everybody. 
Expanding Time Sovereignty
Labourers need more noteworthy independence over their working time, while addressing business needs. 
Harnessing innovation to grow decisions and accomplish a harmony between work and individual life can 
assist them with understanding this objective and address the weights that accompany the obscuring of limits 
between work time and private time.
Blurring of boundaries can contribute to an extension of working hours. The creation of measures to implement 
maximum limits on working time including a right to digitally disconnect, along with measures to improve 
profitability, just as least hour guarantees, will empower genuine decisions for adaptability and command 
over work routines. These measures ought to make working time self-governance that addresses the issues of 
the both labourers and businesses.
Social dialogue serves as an important tool for shaping innovative working-time arrangements tailored to 
both workers’ and employers’ needs. The reception of fitting administrative measures that furnish labourers 
with an ensured and unsurprising least number of hours ought to be executed. Different measures ought to 
be acquainted with make up for variable hours through premium compensation for work that isn’t ensured 
and waiting time pay for periods when hourly specialists are “on call”. 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
284  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  82
Invigorate Collective Representation
The strengthening of social dialogue and social partnership will enable a platform for industry growth and 
provide the institutional capabilities needed to navigate future of work transitions. Public policies that promote 
collective representation and social dialogue should further be enhanced 
Labourers’ and bosses’ associations must fortify their agent authenticity through creative sorting out procedures 
that arrive at the individuals who are occupied with the plat-structure economy, including using technology. 
They should likewise utilize their meeting capacity to carry various interests to the table. 
Harnessing Technology for Decent Work
This means, commitment that AI and ML innovations will be putting the good of people and planet first, 
that labourers and supervisors arrange the structure of work. It is a “human-in-command” way to deal with 
man-made consciousness that guarantees that ultimate conclusions influencing work are taken by people. 
Advances in technology additionally request guideline of information use and algorithmic responsibility in the 
realm of work. A National administration framework for advanced work stages ought to be set up to require 
platforms (and their customers) to regard certain base rights and assurances. 
Multi-Stakeholder Cooperation
Securing a just 4IR transition and developing meaningful country is a task that needs to be solved through a 
multi –stakeholder cooperation.
Institutional role-players with a stake in managing and contributing to the future of work in South Africa include 
business, labour, government and SMME’s.
It must be noted that in the South African context, Government acts not only as an enabler of a conducive 
policy and legislative environment for growth but is also an economic actor for producing goods and 
services in the country. Government also enables the skills ecosystem (public) which underpins human capital 
development opportunities for the majority of people in our country. Given the critical role of government to 
catalyse and implement much of the work for change for 4IR, the human capacity development of public 
sector employees becomes a necessary priority focus.  The findings in this regard to date indicate low levels 
of awareness regarding 4IR and its impact by the average public sector worker, and a lack of agility within 
government systems to respond quickly to the changes required
The SMME sector is a critical sector for inclusive growth and the 4IR environment should see a rise in entrepreneurial 
activity. South Africa still ranks relatively low in global systems measuring national entrepreneurial prowess and 
survival rates of SMME’s are low. Social protection for entrepreneurs is non-existent and very few financial and 
other incentives to venture into entrepreneurship exist. 
A South African strategy has to acknowledge that many of our sectors are still operating in the 3IR space. A 
human capital strategy needs to focus on the future areas of work, while strengthening current sectors for 
maximum job retention, job creation and a transition from the current to future ready scenarios.
An effective and sustainable transition into a 4IR-based paradigm requires significant reform in the systems of 
education & training, labour market policies and the manner in which businesses approach skills development. 
Knowledge workers have been identified as the key resource to drive the 4IR transition. However, the current 
skills development ecosystem only caters for 3rd Industrial Revolution industry requirements. For an effective 
transition, “knowledge workers” are required to become “learning workers”. A learning worker is one who is 
able to apply multidisciplinary concepts to solve problems using knowledge that has been acquired, through 
self-learning initiatives, from what is freely available on the internet. The responsibility lies with the individual 
to develop critical, cognitive and independent thinking skills; skillsets which enable self-learning and the 
application of multidisciplinary concepts to solve problems.
Sklgs System Interventions
TEACHER
EMPOWERMENT
Rediul ehdR in teacher
tiering
Empowerment of existing
teadvere in care competency
ebb and dglal literacy
Rev= leacher training
process at ternary and CPO
levels for innovation b align
to SIR teachrrg reeds
EARLY CHILDHOOD
OEVELOPM ENT
Preside resources for opera
imptenerYahpn of nenonel
roll out of ECD
Introduce foundation skills
(digital laerecy_ Mersey and
numeracy) in POD phase m
age appropriate manner
Introduce competency sluts
(ereMMey, Cf1Ka1!running,
problem salting etc I in EC()
tieing arts based cuniculdn
Penmen specialised COD
Masher tamest
Mainstream. ans eduanon
as pnpnly leaning area
aldlg Celli STEM subpcts
R®ouce DEE for
implementation of coding &
robotic cunkxlurn
Cor!teeny elope bale
(=entity, ordeal lnYnldng
problem saving sec.)
Dtmebo mime, i m
inhastrusture
recommendations for schools
for SIR e computers
maker space, muas II arts
upmled
RE -THINK SECONDARY
EDUCATION
Oppoluapesformun
fxiling ralees,. re individual
students' screnglhs
Certification ash direct
I dustrylinkages and
wOnpbte Meeko,
Portability of skills modular
approach In order to build
rMustry relmM Hgn school
Ouasficaiars.
Indust ryinfymed academic.
vocalionel 11 occupational
9x1115 eumouuMn.
Deayop OnLrte short courses Ir
Idelang adult learn rg
TVET. mote agar letter. Seni
as dgually onebied moro
training imam ola
Seta: Overhaul silo approach
Dedicated SIR spend widen Seta
budgets Name offerings for
online lernreg
Re -design hgher education
skills ecosystem for more
iraegrelen, palatably of sees
and relevanne
Resource SAGA adequately to
testing cl
ecnnclogy loUMW= fasele
tumarov,d Imes
PnrnrSeYes
PMmnrpialá+Rrkmrmrr
.;;%Ir mar.g
nrcelenl6ehwq
WORKPLACE LEARNING
(Apprenticeships,
I ea me rsh i ps.Internships)
Retie sng
Idenpfy slob for the Moire of
work in existing Irdusldea
Iderery skits for Ile hilted Of
work in emerging industries
Invest in industry value Main
parblerehips with ends
insMAions 8 schools Ion
learner uptake
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   285
page |  83
Possibilities for the Skills Revolution
Figure 38 describes possible approaches and points of interventions to leverage change in the existing skills 
ecosystem for maximum empowerment and retention of South Africa’s human capital.
Figure 38: Possible approaches and points of intervention to leverage existing skills ecosystem.
In order to adequately equip South Africa’s youth with 4IR relevant skills, attention must be paid to foundation 
skills (literacy, numeracy, digital literacy) and competency skills (creativity, critical thinking, problem solving, 
communication, collaboration, Integrative ability, People Management, Coordinating with others, Empathy/
caring, Judgement and decision-Making, Cognitive flexibility, Emotional Intelligence, Negotiations). These 
skills are taught to maximum effect between the ages of 0 – 7/8 years, meaning that interventions in this 
regard should preferably take place in the ECD and Foundation phase of learning. They do not have to stop 
after this phase, but maximum benefit is gained at this age. 
An approach to be considered is to make use of the current Arts subject in the CAPS curriculum so as not 
to further burden the system with additional content. This subject needs to be re-worked to include practical 
music making and arts activities designed for cognitive development. Studies show that early exposure to 
music and art based techniques improve abstract thinking and problem solving ability, increase overall IQ 
and facilitate mathematics and literacy learning.
92 The Arts subject area must become a priority learning 
area on the same level as maths and literacy and teachers exposed to specific subject training programmes 
in this regard. If successfully implemented, a new crop of learners who are able to think creatively and 
problem solve will emerge within a short and measurable period of time. This will have a knock-on positive 
effect on other foundation subjects. In Finland, widely hailed as one of the world’s most successful education 
systems, teachers utilise the arts from the earliest grades to help support other subject areas and to develop 
basic motor skills. Arts and content integration are drivers for developing creative thinking ability. Digital skills 
are already planned for implementation at Foundation phase level by the DBE. A further area of focus is the 
assessment systems which can no longer only test knowledge retention and memory but need to be able to 
assess application and interpretation of knowledge, as well as emotional intelligence and core competency 
skills (“soft” skills).
92 Hallam, S. (2010). The power of music: Its impact on the intellectual, social and personal development of children and young 
people. International Journal of Music Education

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
286  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  84
An integrated approach to include entrepreneurship within the current subject areas is possible and should 
also be engaged at the ECD and Foundation phase.
The Department of Education is at the early stages of deploying a three-stream curriculum to create multiple 
pathways for secondary learners. This can be interrogated in more detail with a 4IR grid promoting future of 
work considerations. The deployment of technology to enable the functioning and efficiency of the education 
system is paramount. At the same time the use of technology by learners and digitisation of content delivery, 
assessments and various other processes can be accelerated.
Another key aspect of the capacity development relates to educational and curriculum reform. Some 
innovative approaches to consider include:
• Japan’s shift away from “pass or fail in a grade” to subject specific progression. This means that students 
can progress in some subjects while remaining “behind” in others in order to improve and get to the 
required level of subject proficiency.
• Removing subject and discipline boundaries - inter-disciplinarity to encourage complex-thinking
The role and function of tertiary bodies within the skills ecosystem needs to be re-worked in order to produce 
agile, accelerated learning in high priority skill areas for the future of work, as well as to create online 
learning and short courses for lifelong learning for adults from all walks of life. Central to this is a review of the 
accreditation processes and bodies which currently take long periods of time to certify new curricula. The 
South African Qualifications Authority should be urgently resourced to allow the institution to deploy relevant 
technologies to improve system agility for faster accreditation processing response times.
As we recommend that the skills development ecosystem needs to be reviewed, at the centre of it is our 
definition of the Unit standards that may need to be looked at. There is a need to broaden the definition of 
Unit standards to allow for flexible skills pathways. This will allow for the collapse of boundaries between the 
learning centres and workplace. Learners must be able to easily get recognition for the learning that has 
taken place outside the traditional learning centres. Recognition of Prior Learning as it is always touted as a 
solution has not worked precisely because of the narrow definition of the unit standards.
It is imperative that South Africa does a skills demand and supply analysis for current and future realities 
to identify the gaps and understand how many people we need to train in which skills, before allocating 
numbers and budget. The specificity of skills must also be defined. Deciding on specialisation within skills 
areas will assist to define our competitive advantage with regard to digital and future skills and allow us to 
recommend specific skills for learning in both school and post-school environments. 
The National Digital Skills Strategy has been developed by the Department of Communications and Digital 
Technologies (DCDT), the lead department within government tasked with driving 4IR readiness for the 
country. The strategy is intended to provide a framework for the prioritisation of critical digital skills necessary 
for 4IR and the coordination and integration across government of the related implementation of this. It is 
recommended that this strategy, inclusive of the full spectrum of appropriate skills for future of work i.e. digital 
skills, technical skills, and competency skills, provide an overarching framework and coordination point for the 
4IR skills drive for South Africa.
The Institutions of work require a renewed engagement for a social contract and the accompanying 
social protection systems in the context of 4IR and the changing world of work. Entirely new areas of labour 
and tax laws need to be engaged to regulate for example the gig economy, work done electronically 
across geographical borders. Workplace skills development and re-skilling of the current workforce falls to 
companies to navigate in partnership with the Seta’s, and the relevance and agility of these processes must 
be investigated.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   287
page |  85
Human capacity in our informal economy and SMME’s requires investment in social protection systems as well 
as financial mechanisms to boost start up and early stage ventures. Enabling SMME’s access to appropriate 
technology will enhance their growth and ability to scale.
South Africa has several funding structures for skills development and a review of these is needed in order to 
ensure a more coordinated and effective approach to funding skills for the 4IR. Current duplication and a 
lack of overall direction is resulting in the inefficient use of these funds in moving South Africa forward. 
Potential additional funding for skills development include: 
• The Universal Service and Access Fund (USAF) houses substantial funds earmarked for ensuring universal 
access and service to electronic communications services, primarily focused on infrastructure initiatives. 
The effectiveness of this fund needs to be reviewed and linked to an integrated approach to digital 
infrastructure development aligned with critical digital and future skills development. 
• The national Digital Skills Strategy proposes the establishment of a Digital Development Fund which 
will be created with the aim of general digital development including priority digital and future skills 
development projects and digital literacy. 
• The Labour Activation Programme managed by the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) is a possible 
funding source for the re-skilling of workers who have lost their jobs due to disruptive technologies. 
• Prioritisation and incentivising of Enterprise Development, Skills Development and Social and Economic 
Development funds from companies with regards to the BBBEE codes to support digital and future skills 
development for a 4IR economy can also contribute to skills development.
There is a general and urgent need for education and awareness of what the 4IR means at multiple levels 
in our society. This includes education and awareness of the types of skills required for a new economy 
and how the world of work is changing. Campaigns should be focused on young people, industry and 
sector discussions should be encouraged, and the public service should be targeted with an awareness and 
upskilling campaign. A national online platform to educate, inform, update on training and other opportunities 
in the 4IR context should be established, while also showcasing current 4IR centres of excellence. 
These initial thoughts in this first draft of our report form a basis from which public engagements with sector 
experts will be held with a view to developing a specific strategy for human capacity development which is 
human centred as per the pillars and focus areas outlined below.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
288  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  86
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS FOR HUMAN CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT
HIGH LEVEL RECOMMENDATIONS 
(SOLUTION) ACTIONABLE PROJECTS / POSSIBLE AREAS OF INTERVENTION
Catalyse Structural Change in the 
Education System
We must attempt to initiate changes 
which are catalytic to structural change, 
as it is inevitable that the education 
system will evolve structurally to reflect 
the architecture of the 4th industrial 
revolution over time. Thought must 
be given to flexibility, agility, speed of 
accreditation, integration of learning 
streams, mobility of learners, remote 
content delivery, cognitive flexibility and 
the use of technology to enable the 
efficiency of the skills delivery system.
• Redesign/Alignment of the skills ecosystem for agility necessary 
for 4IR learning
• Prioritise the coordination of the various components and 
systems within the complete skills ecosystem to a new 
configuration which is fit for purpose for the skills demands 
of the 4IR era i.e. Stackable competencies which are micro-
credentialed, industry aligned and allow people to enter and 
exit the system at multiple points as part of a lifelong learning 
process, introducing relevant technology and devices and  
digital and future skills (competency skills, digital literacy skills).
This systemic change process should be facilitated at the 
Human Resources Development Council as a priority project 
for 2020 i.e. have a timeframe associated to the deliverable, 
assisted by the 4IR Commission and driven by the Digital & 
Future Skills Forum. Link this ecosystem to cradle to grave nodal 
network, driven by AI within and across ecosystem components 
to perform the function of coordination and streamlining. Use 
the national Digital Skills Strategy as an overarching guideline 
strategy for skills alignment.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   289
page |  87
HIGH LEVEL RECOMMENDATIONS 
(SOLUTION) ACTIONABLE PROJECTS / POSSIBLE AREAS OF INTERVENTION
Recognise Competency Over 
Qualification
The 4IR economy requires an approach 
to skills characterised by competencies 
which are micro-credentialed, industry 
aligned and allow people to enter 
and exit the system at multiple points 
as part of a lifelong learning process. 
Qualifications become less important 
than competency and skills such as 
creativity, critical thinking, problem 
solving are central to skilling in this new 
era, requiring a focus on both STEM 
and arts and humanities education 
simultaneously. Technology enabled 
platforms can be used to streamline 
these processes. The need for social 
scientists will increase as there is a 
requirement to navigate complex 
human issues of ethics, wellbeing, 
identity etc. in this new era of cyber-
physical integration as it impacts 
and shapes our culture. Technical 
proficiency in relevant digital skills also 
becomes paramount.
• Invest in relevant infrastructure – develop minimum 
infrastructure recommendation for schools for 4IR e.g. DBE 
must work towards every school having access to internet 
and no less than 25 computers and a printer, a dedicated 
room as a maker space for robotics curriculum and a basic 
set of music and art equipment
• Establish a national project for teacher upskilling in digital 
literacy, critical thinking and creativity skills.
• Provide resources for urgent roll out of ECD learning centres
• Resource the Department of Basic Education With 4IR Strategic 
Advisory Capacity
a) To drive the implementation of coding & robotics curriculum
b) Provide resources for urgent implementation of national roll 
out of ECD so that 4IR skills can also go to this level  
• Basic education and Higher Education - within existing 
curriculum, find ways to teach the skills aligned to the 4IR 
(critical thinking, solutions, creative thinking) and develop 
and measure these skills in addition to the content. In this 
regard use the existing Creative Arts and Life Orientation 
subjects in the CAPS curriculum. Invest in STEAMIE education.
Leverage the youth demographic 
to establish South Africa as a nett 
exporter of skills in the digital 
economy
South Africa’s large youth population is 
ideally positioned to provide critical skills 
to global markets in the digital economy
• Innovate and realign the Seta’s by creating a framework 
that guides the scope, budget allocations and priority skills 
development areas relevant to South Africa’s 4IR strategy, 
including the necessary legislative amendments. 
• Rethink TVET colleges roles as micro learning institutions 
providing 4IR relevant competencies.
• Adequately resource the South African Qualifications 
Authority to design, test and implement technology solutions 
for faster turn-around times for accreditation processes.
• Consider innovating qualifications assessment criteria to allow 
for flexible learning pathways and erasing of the boundaries 
between learning centres and the workplace e.g. broaden 
definition of unit standards. 
• Align skills development funding instruments
• Intervene in specific areas in Education System (see Figure 
51) 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
290  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  88
HIGH LEVEL RECOMMENDATIONS 
(SOLUTION) ACTIONABLE PROJECTS / POSSIBLE AREAS OF INTERVENTION
Invest in strategic projects for mass skills 
development and industry uptake in 
identified 4IR areas. Initiatives should 
be scalable for exponential labour 
market absorption and skills pipeline 
development.
Engage in skills development PPP 
initiatives across all of the identified 
high-growth potential industries. A 
portion of the skills development levy 
(SDL) can be used for funding the 
“PUBLIC PARTICIPATION” part of the PPP 
initiative.  Establish a cradle-to-grave 
nodal network, driven by artificial 
intelligence, within and across sectors. 
This will enable a skills pipeline linking 
skills related market demand with an 
identified talent pool. Skills development 
courses should be competency based 
and stackable. This will enable quick 
turnaround times (as soon as 3 months) 
in terms of skilling and deployment 
into industry. In addition, multiple exit 
streams viz. employment, outsourcing 
and entrepreneurship is part of the 
nodal network. This creates flexibility 
in the system, resulting in opportunity 
for every individual to realise their full 
potential. 
• Resource and scale the NTIP initiative’s model, approach and 
platform for the manufacturing sector and extend to other 
industries such as the creative industries, tourism and agriculture. 
NTIP currently has a working model for the manufacturing 
sector. The model allows a systemic approach to an industry 
sector with whole value chain participation which is industry 
driven. The underlying nodal platform driven by AI provides a 
coordinating mechanism which makes the system efficient, 
proactive and comprehensive. Funding should come from 
the Seta’s for these projects. The approach will create a skills 
pipeline linking skills related market demand with an identified 
talent pool and can show results within a short period of time 
without sacrificing depth and quality of skills and human 
capacity development in a multi-dimensional fashion.
• Leverage the Youth Employment Service (YES) programme - 
link this programme to actual vacancies in emerging industries 
- include 4IR skills training in the time they are with the sponsor 
- link the youth to fulltime jobs and vacancies in that entity or 
other organizations in need of skills.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   291
page |  89
HIGH LEVEL RECOMMENDATIONS 
(SOLUTION) ACTIONABLE PROJECTS / POSSIBLE AREAS OF INTERVENTION
• Establish & resource Creative Industries Hubs and Clusters 
in townships and rural areas for Digital Content Production 
including animation, gaming, virtual reality and augmented 
reality, photography, graphic design, sound production, 
audio design, film & video production, digital art production, 
transmedia, digital marketing. Cluster creative industries 
SMME’s in these hubs where a full value chain intervention from 
skills, to incubation, to content origination, content production 
and distribution in a networked system is supported, linked to 
industry. The Gauteng Economic development department 
is coordinating a process, along with most of the Gauteng 
metros/municipalities (although it is industry driven) in which 
industry mentorship and partnership and access to local 
and African markets is already leveraged. This initiative can 
be capacitated and scaled with funding from the Seta’s as 
well as PPP arrangements. New foreign owned entrants to our 
market can be engaged with government as a facilitator, to 
invest in content production infrastructure via BBBEE equity 
equivalency processes etc.
• Maximise the planned Digital Hubs Rollout  - The currently 
budgeted for and planned government roll out of 100+ 
digital hubs should be leveraged for 4IR skills development, 
4IR awareness programmes and social dialogue regarding 
4IR in the SA context. The Hubs should be maximised to include 
the spaces and technology relevant to the full spectrum of 
digital skills (ICT + digital creative skills), competency skills 
(creativity, critical thinking, problem solving, collaboration, 
negotiation etc.) and entrepreneurship skills.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
292  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  90
HIGH LEVEL RECOMMENDATIONS 
(SOLUTION) ACTIONABLE PROJECTS / POSSIBLE AREAS OF INTERVENTION
Social dialogue should be 
encouraged and stimulated for an 
inclusive national discussion regarding 
4IR and its implications for South Africa.
Social Protection systems and 
processes must be negotiated 
and considered with regards to the 
changing world of work and what 
this means for both employers and 
employees.
• A national platform to educate, inform, update on training 
and other opportunities in the 4IR context should be 
established. This platform should be an online platform 
supported by a variety of campaigns in the public domain, 
events, workshops etc.
• Issues such as promoting social dialogue and collective 
representation of workers and employers, supporting and 
incentivizing entrepreneurship and harnessing technology 
for decent work and job creation must be mainstreamed 
and coordinated in business, labour and entrepreneurship 
bodies and fora.
• Create Social Protection Scheme For Human Capacity In the 
SMME & Informal Sectors
• Human capacity in our informal economy and SMME's 
requires investment in social protection systems as well 
as financial mechanisms to boost start up and early stage 
ventures. Enabling SMME’s access to appropriate technology 
will enhance their growth and ability to scale.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   293
page |  91
HIGH LEVEL RECOMMENDATIONS 
(SOLUTION) ACTIONABLE PROJECTS / POSSIBLE AREAS OF INTERVENTION
Identify key policies and legislation 
which need to be changed and 
updated to enable and support the 
skills ecosystem, the changing world 
of work and emerging high growth 
sectors for job creation in 4IR society.
• Attract Critical Skills By Amending Prohibitive Legislation a) 
Amend section 19(4) of the Immigration Act be amended to 
specifically reference 4IR related skills. The amendment should 
better enable highly skilled immigrants to come and apply 
their trade in South Africa under favourable conditions. The 
attraction of highly sort-after 4IR skills be assist in accelerating 
the development of South Africa’s knowledge base and 
industries. These skills must not be restricted to academia but 
should include entrepreneurs who intend on starting businesses 
from South Africa.
• Amend Labour legislation to accommodate the Gig 
economy by recognizing Internet project work as legitimate 
work. This should include incentives for companies to build 
Gig Economy platforms to leverage South African 4IR skills for 
global demand. 
• Copyright & IP protection - The Copyright Amendment bill is 
currently with the President for signature. While better than the 
previous version, it is still highly controversial due to a “fair use” 
clause that has been included which potentially threatens 
creative content producers’ ownership rights, and according 
to a PWC review of the draft legislation, could lead to inferior 
content production for academic textbooks and resources 
– impacting the skills sector significantly. IP protection and 
ownership is the bedrock of the creative economy so an in 
depth look at what this bill means in the context of 4IR and 
the creative economy as an emerging area for the future of 
work is important.
8.3  INFRASTRUCTURE, RESOURCES & NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
Globally the industrial revolutions have brought about changes that have an impact on physical infrastructure, 
resources and the natural environment. The fourth industrial revolution is no different. This revolution could aid 
in bringing together various physical infrastructures including transport, energy, digital communications and 
water to create new innovative opportunities. 
Through these opportunities, new trends have emerged globally. Once such trend includes moving energy 
infrastructure away from a largescale top-down systems to making use of solar panels and wind energy 
coupled increasing storage capacity. These innovations are driving the change for infrastructure and 
resources globally.
In addition to the innovation eluded to above, 4IR technologies are being used to improve efficiency by 
matching supply and demand, this has a direct impact on infrastructure, resources required and the impact 
on the natural environment. Furthermore,  a global trend for water could move to a more decentralized system 
rather than a traditional centralized approach. This will be achieved through the use of 4IR technologies 
however this may still require some work. Lastly, communication globally will be impacted by the use of 5G 
networks. This will have a direct impact on the infrastructure required through various efficiencies envisaged 
in the future. 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
294  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  92
8.3.1  South Africa Diagnostic
It is a priority for this Commission to recommend that the RSA participate actively in international efforts 
to ensure that technology companies pay a fair share of tax in the countries in which they operate. The 
infrastructure and other subsidized services and State investments which are recommended below can only 
be sustainably funded if technology companies are not allowed to avoid and evade tax in the manner in 
which they currently do so, for instance by transfer pricing and by selling IP to tax havens where the profits are 
allowed to accumulate, with little or no tax accruing in the countries where the companies actually operate. 
This avoidance is increasing the gross inequality within and between nations which has to date characterised 
the 4IR.
South African Infrastructure
South Africa has a moderately decent central system of national economic infrastructure. It has an advanced 
and well-created transport framework. The air and rail systems are the biggest on the mainland, and the 
streets in good state. The nation’s ports give a characteristic stopover to transportation to and from Europe, the 
Americas, Asia, Australasia and the two banks of Africa. South Africa is supplied with rich characteristic assets. 
It is the world’s biggest maker and exporter of gold, chromium and platinum – 90% of the world’s worldwide 
platinum mineral assets are assessed to be in South Africa’s Bushveld Complex. The test is to maintain and 
extend its power, water, transport and correspondences framework so as to help financial development and 
social improvement objectives. ICT infrastructure is at the core of 4IR enablement. Without ubiquitous, secure 
broadband infrastructure and connectivity, many of the promised benefits of 4IR may not be realised.
 4IR has potential to improve the quality of life for the world’s population and important for South Africa to 
remain competitive in the Global Economy. According to the WEF, “in many parts of the world, aspects of 
the Second and Third Industrial Revolutions have yet to be experienced, complicated by the fact that new 
technologies are in some cases able to leapfrog older ones.” As the United Nations pointed out in 2013, 
“more people in the world have access to a mobile phone than basic sanitation. In the same way, the 4IR 
is beginning to emerge at the same time that the third, digital revolution is spreading and maturing across 
countries and organizations”.
93 
The 4IR builds on the 1IR, 2IR and 3IR, hence in order to fully realise the benefits of the 4IR, the first three 
industrial revolutions need to be at a high level of maturity in the country. In South Africa we still need to 
address some of the enablers from the first three Industrial Revolutions such as stable power supply with no 
load shedding. Countries such as China, United States of America (USA), Japan and Germany have stable 
power grids, and can therefore fully embrace the adoption of the 4IR. 
These countries have also bridged the digital divide in as part of the 3IR. As an example, in Germany 96% 
(79.1m; January 2019) of the population have access to the Internet. [4] In contrast in 2018 the GSMA reported 
that only 54% (30.8m) of the total South Africa population have access to the internet. [5] Furthermore, 
Statistics SA reported that only 67% of SA households had at least one member who had access to, or used 
the internet either at home, work, place of study or internet cafés. 
The Huawei Global Connectivity Index (GCI) of 2018 ranked South Africa at “46th out of 79 countries in terms 
of progress and performance made in broadband, data centres and cloud services.”
94 The report states 
that in general, the country has performed on par levels regarding broadband, data centres and cloud 
administrations. Pushing ahead, greater interest in ICT framework is important to help and encourage the 
improvement of ICT in South Africa in order to bring 4IR to fruition. 
93   https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2016/01/what-is-the-fourth-industrial-revolution/
94    https://www.itweb.co.za/content/o1Jr5MxEAX8qKdWL
Best Performer
overalin
category
Overall Country
Ranking out of
140
InfrastructureCT Adoption
Electrification Role
ranking out of
140
Mobile-cellular
Telephone
Subscriptions
ranking out of
140
Mubile-
Broadband
Subscriptions
ranking out of
140
Fired broadband
Internet
Subscriptions
ranking out of 140
Fibre !Memel
Subscriptions
ranking ouf of
140
Internet Users
ranking out of
140
United States
1
Multiple
1
Multiple
1
United Arab
Emira les
1
Switzerland
1
Korea
1
Iceland
1
Worst Performer
overalin
category
Citad
140
Chad
140
Chad
140
Liberia
140
Sierra Leone
140
Multiple
114 Mar in most)
Chad
140
Countries
Canada121 11463124110
China131 9445367 82
Germany3 1 42537 6615
Japan5 1 348 223 8
Korea151 52176 1 9
Singapore2 1 174 394 24
South Africa671029 66998378
United Kingdom8 1 694010756
Unies Slates1 1 619 194040
Worst Pedormtng
International
Connectivity
National Connectivity
and Data Centres
LastMile Broadband
Connectivity
(Mobile & Fixed)
{
TRANSPORT ICT & ELECTRONICS MANUFACTURINGHEALTH
ICT Infrastructure Building Blocks
International Submarine Cable Connectivity
Fibre Optic and Microwave
Comectivity
Central Cloud Decentralised
Data Centres Cloud Data Centres
4G5GRNA
ISM
TechnologyFTTx
4lR Consumer and Enterprise Customer
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   295
page |  93
The WEF Global Competitiveness Index 4.0 which measures national competitiveness defined as the set of 
institutions, policies and factors that determine the level of productivity. South Africa was ranked 67th overall 
in the World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Index 4.0. 
Figure 39 provides the benchmark comparison between leading 4IR countries in terms of Infrastructure and 
ICT Adoption.
Figure 39: WEF; Benchmarking Comparison
The Global Competitiveness Report 2018
It is clear that as a country we have done well to provide mobile voice connectivity to all citizens, however 
much work is still required to provide our citizens with mobile and fixed broadband connectivity. This clearly 
supports the “SA Connect” broadband ambitions.
ICT infrastructure and resources required to enable 4IR
The figure below (Figure 40) provides a high-level view of the relevant ICT infrastructure and resources. 
Furthermore, the relevant 4IR technologies to optimally manage infrastructure supporting the key economic 
sectors are reflected.
Figure 40: ICT Infrastructure Framework
Source: Diagram developed by the Infrastructure and resources workstream

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
296  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  94
8.3.2  SA 4IR Opportunities, Centres of Excellence 
Infrastructure is the cornerstone of modern society consisting of a grid like network of roads and rail, water supply, 
electrical grids, the built environment and digital networks. In the past, we talked of analogue infrastructure but 
today we speak of digital infrastructure.  Future infrastructure is software based, data enabled and has cloud 
access.  Digital infrastructure is set to improve access to information and thereby promote transparency of 
government processes and activities and in turn, build interconnected empowered communities. 
Fibre optic infrastructure
When planning for the digital infrastructure, it is important to take into account the societal technology needs 
and requirements.   Without sufficient broadband, you cannot deploy cloud computing. Without cloud, big 
data analytics is impractical. And without big data and IoT, you won’t have clean relevant data to feed your 
AI systems.  Broadband internet and Data are foundational to the Digital Economy. Getting connected is a 
necessary first step for access to the digital economy that will lead to productivity improvements and new 
economic opportunities for individuals, businesses and governments. Four areas of Fibre deployment need to 
be considered, In-building Fibre, Capillary (Metro) Fibre access, Inter-city Fibre, and Ocean fibre (Submarine 
cables).
8.3.2.1. In-building Fibre
Fibre inside buildings should be treated the same way as other utilities like water and electricity.  All new 
buildings should be reticulated with Fibre with appropriate conduits from the street into every building unit 
(office, industrial building, domestic unit-house or apartment in a block, shopping mall, etc.) with the required 
modems, ready to be used, as currently is the case for water and electricity. 
Occupation of the building should not be allowed until the Fibre installation has been done according to 
minimum prescribed standards, akin to those applied when dealing with water and electricity. In order to 
promote agility, a digital Fibre installation request, approval and certification process for the builder should 
be established and run by a non-governmental body; a local Building association with a section focused on 
in-building Fibre standards.
This body should represent an appropriate area size, such as a section of a large city (Johannesburg, Durban, 
Cape Town, etc.), or a region of smaller towns or villages, and be run by a group of volunteers (people 
prepared to work in the interest of the community) for a limited period, e.g. 3 to 5 years. A statutory body will 
be needed to approve new developments. 
8.3.2.2 Capillary (Metro) Fibre access
The Fibre in the building needs to connect to a Capillary access network, and it should not matter who owns 
it in totality, or parts of it. This network may have to be installed on Municipal land, or Private land owned by 
an estate or body corporate 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   297
page |  95
8.3.3.3 Inter-city Fibre
A key player in this area is SANRAL (The South African National Roads Agency SOC Ltd). Key recommendations 
include:
• The process starts with the 17 national roads in South Africa
• SANRAL should appoint an independent committee to approve applications to lay fibre along 
its roads linking cities
• People in the industry must be part of the approval process, with new representatives being 
appointed every 3 to 5 years. 
8.3.3.4 Submarine fibre 
There are more than 378 submarine cable systems globally spanning 1.2 million kilometres connecting close 
to 100 countries (Figures 41 and 42).  More than 50 submarine projects have been proposed into 2021, worth 
a total investment of $7.2 billion.   A third of deployments will be in the Pacific region between Asia, Australia, 
and the United States followed by the Atlantic as the next locus of activity and then the Indian Ocean.  
Consortiums of telecommunications carriers traditionally owned submarine cables.    But in recent years, 
major web-based companies, such as Google, Facebook, Microsoft, and Amazon drive investment into their 
own cables, displacing the traditional Internet providers. 
These four companies today own or lease more than half the undersea cable capacity.  This increased “level 
of investment has put significant downward pressure on the price of submarine capacity, which continues 
to decline at about 25 to 28 percent per year.”
95  The three most familiar financing models are through 
consortiums, development banks and private ownership.  The three largest builders of submarine cables are 
Alcatel Submarine Networks of Alcatel-Lucent (France), TE SubCom of TE Connectivity (Switzerland) and NEC 
Corporation (Japan). Today China has shown increasing activity from Huawei Marine.
These submarine cables carry over 95% of intercontinental internet traffic.  Submarine cable networks connect 
to terrestrial networks via a Point-of-Presence (POP) to provide critical end-to-end network connection with the 
help of  global network infrastructure of Cable Landing Station (CLS).
Submarine fibre is key to linking up to the rest of the world, and therefore a key component in enabling our 
globally integrated national 4IR project. However, our quest ought to be more ambitious than only linking our 
national traffic to the global network. 
There were no hyper scale data centres in South Africa until recently [1].  South Africa must become a global 
Submarine cable hub.  We should also encourage the housing of one or more hyper scale data centres 
for the global giants; Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Alibaba, etc. for compute, AI and data analytics in the 
Southern hemisphere between the East and West, and between the Southern and Northern Hemispheres.  
Several places are recognised, or positioned themselves as Submarine fibre hubs, for example, Egypt (which 
is a natural hub), Portugal, France (Marseilles), Brazil (Forteleza) and other such places.
95   http://www2.itif.org/2019-submarine-cables.pd
NIGERIA
fAM[10011
SOUTH
SAIPAN
ETHIOPIA
uaa.KENYA
TANZANIA
ANGOLA
NOOK
BOTSWANA.
__
vSOUTH AFRICA
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
298  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  96
Figure 41: Global Submarine cable map 
Source: https://www.submarinecablemap.com [UJ_11]
To make South Africa attractive to Hyper scale data centre owners, there is a need for Submarine cable 
investments linking the Indian Ocean to the Atlantic Ocean along the South Coast. The Submarine cable 
(SAFE) carries only 0.01 Tbps.  The next cable (SAEx2) is expected to be activated in 2021 with a capacity of 
48 Tbps. The combined 48.01 Tbps linking the West to the East coast is small, in comparison to the West coast 
capacity of 300Tbps and the East coast capacity of 149 Tbps.
Figure 42: South African Submarine Cable Capacity (Tbps) 2019 and projected 2022
Image produced on behalf of 4IR Infrastructure and Resources workstream, September 2019
A breakdown of the current and expected sea cables and their capacities on our West, South and East 
coasts is provided below (Figure 43). We have large Submarine cable capacity landing on our shores in both 
the Indian and Atlantic Ocean.  We require more capacity (more Submarine cables) linking East and West 

Capacity of cable
Les.Air ra1urlerpwr
SAL`w'EASSy10 Tbps
1EKW
yt7.r.SEACOM12 Tbps
SM.:METISS24 Tbps
WLSAEa248 Tbps
SAFE10 Gbus
1ox45 Tbps
osECA5 12 Tbpe
SAT3NYACS 343Gbu
MACS14 Tbps
Equmno'2C Tbps
SAEi1'OE Tubs
SABR54 rCps
PEACEtE Traps
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   299
page |  97
coastline, to feed into other inter-continental Submarine cables and so carry more international data traffic 
across our South Coast. This will enable South Africa to become a global Submarine cable hub and make it 
attractive enough for more of the Internet giants to invest in hyper scale data centres in South Africa. 
In addition to carrying traffic in new Submarine cables along our coast between international destinations, we 
should have additional landing points on our coast (Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, East London, Durban, Mtunzini, 
and other coastal town) to link international traffic to the inland. The map below illustrates this.
In addition to carrying traffic in new Submarine cables along our coast between international destinations, we 
should have additional landing points on our coast (Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, East London, Durban, Mtunzini, 
and other coastal cities) to link international traffic to the inland. The map in figure 57 below illustrates this.
Figure 43: African Submarine cable map
Figure 44: Suggested Submarine cables to connect Coastal cities 
Image produced on behalf of 4IR Infrastructure and Resources workstream, September 2019

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
300  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  98
8.3.3 Data centres 
Currently South Africa doesn’t have adequate data centres to store its citizenry data in its land. Data Protection 
is paramount in the 4IR era; it sits in the Hyper scale data centre as it is global data. Government cannot 
access data from other countries even if the real estate is on SA soil.  This is to ensure data privacy, security, 
integrity and safe guarding against undue interference or manipulation. Data centres support future industries 
and economies with Big Data being “an essential resource for economic growth, competitiveness, innovation, 
job creation and societal progress.”
96 Data centres are the new digital infrastructure to service various industry 
stakeholders and use cases.
Hyper-scale Data Centres (HSDC) are foundational to building and powering economies of the 21st century 
and beyond, with data as the new commodity.  Hyper-scale data centres will constitute 53 percent of all data 
centre servers by 2021, account for 55 percent of total traffic within all data centres by 2021  and 94 percent 
“of workloads will be processed by cloud data centres with only” 6 percent being processed by traditional 
data centres97. There is an increasing role of data centres given the largest data traffic volume is within Data 
centres (73.4% in 2019).  Traffic volume from Data centre to User, and Data centre to Data centre follow at a 
distant second and third positions respectively. 
A growing global grid of hyper scale data centres aimed at supporting the 4IR future currently exists. Most 
data centres are in the Northern hemisphere, as roughly 80% of the global population live there. The ideal 
configuration of sea cable hubs in the Southern Hemisphere (and its concomitant hyper scale data centres) 
will reside in South America, Southern Africa and Australia. South Africa must do everything to, as the CAICT 
puts it, formulate “policies and strategies to attract submarine cables to their(our) coastlines” – in other words 
our South African coastline. Attracting hyper scale Data Centres should then become easier. 
Spectrum
According to the South African Government, it has set itself the task to pioneer new technologies and take 
quantum leaps towards the economies of the future, and to drastically improve production levels. It is 
expected that the 4IR strategy should deliver a blueprint and plan to deal with developments in the short, 
medium and long-term.
In preparation for 4IR there is an urgent need to overhaul the telecommunication rules landscape. The 
purpose of the telecommunication review is to align it with the broader approach to the 4IR inspirations 
of South Africa. There can be no successful 4IR discussions and realistic action plans without an aligned 
telecommunication framework. As the industry moves into the 5G era, appropriate regulatory conditions, 
transparent spectrum rules and a clear and predictable policy framework will continue to be key to drive 
further mobile and broadband developments.  Simply put, there can never be a successful 4IR strategy/
policy without a well-planned and considered 5G deployment policy, these are closely related, and policy 
and regulations should focus on the following areas:
8.3.3.1  5G Spectrum
As indicated above 5G requires a mix of frequencies at sub 1-GHz, 1–6 GHz and above 6 GHz including 
the mm wave frequencies, to deliver widespread coverage of the population and support a multitude of 
consumer and enterprise use cases. Therefore, the availability of spectrum, at what frequency, what rules for 
its use, timelines, and cost will have a major impact on the development of 5G.
96   https://www.digitaltransport.eu/2019/pages/sessions-description
97   https://www.sysgroup.com/resources/blog/cloud-computing-in-2018
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   301
page |  99
8.3.3.2 5G  Infrastructure
A full-blown roll-out of 5G services is dependent on the deployment of small cells in the urban areas and to an 
extent in semi-rural areas. This means that policy makers and regulators should consider removing regulations 
perceived as obstacles to future 5G cell deployment roll-outs.  From a Telecoms industry perspective, 
regulatory and policy certainty should support, reform and streamline favourable wayleave processes that 
will allow for timely and cost-effective infrastructure deployment for 5G. Commercially based network sharing 
can be another factor for consideration in the 5G policy and regulatory framework to reduce operating costs 
and provide additional capacity in congested areas where space for sites and towers is limited.
8.3.4  High-Performance Computing 
Centre for High-Performance Computing (CHPC) is a strategic asset for the country. The CHPC can accelerate 
scientific research, innovation and a potentially catalyse economic competitiveness, promote leadership in 
technology and solidify national security.  HPC workloads range from astrophysics, Genomics, Weather & 
Climate, Financial analysis, AI and Big data analytics. South Africa’s CHPC infrastructure serves as a foundation 
upon which we can build the national 4IR initiative. The exponential growth of data, the emergence of AI, 
extensive spread use of data analytics tools and diffuse penetration of Cloud ushers in new ways to work with 
data. The traditional HPC workflows of modelling and simulation are transforming to a new converged state 
of High-performance Computing-Artificial Intelligence-Data analytics (HPC-AI-HPDA). 
The public sector stakeholders’ consultation feedback indicated compute resource duplication.  Multiple State 
entities either have dedicated standalone compute resources or are leasing capacity from the private sector. 
On further discussion to understand the pattern of use, it became apparent that the compute resources are 
not utilised 24/7 but rather during specific designated times usually recurring monthly for a particular purpose. 
SITA, Weather Bureau, SA Medical Research Council, Council for Geosciences, Agricultural Research Council, 
South African Social Security Agency Grant Payment are among the public entities requiring compute power. 
These entities have varied compute needs and times of required use for processing workloads, leaving 
significant gaps of protracted times of HPC underutilization.  The result is the CHPC & SITA are not working at 
full capacity. Hence, to embark on a digital transformation journey, we must start with a review, restructure 
and consolidation of the existing computing capacity to establish a national HPC grid with the multi-cloud on 
premise facilities located at the CHCP .  This national HPC grid would then be supported by a complementary 
provincial edge grid and Open data platform – Open Data South Africa. SITA must be dismantled. It has 
never achieved the goals for which it was established and currently is an obstacle to progress and efficiency. 
8.3.4.1  Digital Transformation South Africa 2025 – Leveraging CHPC
Digital transformation is a critical pillar of 4IR.  Government needs to provide leadership and convince 
Business, Academic institutions, SMMEs, Parastatals and NGOs to embrace digital transformation starting with 
the adoption of Cloud 2025 strategy.  South Africa must assume the position of being a recognized digital 
node of the continent that is integrated to the global grid. 
High performance computing is the lifeblood of advanced economies in the same way that electricity and 
roads drive today’s economies.  The country has a window of opportunity to build on existing capacity and 
capability at the Centre for High Performance Computing (CHPC) and many other existing State compute 
resources.  In an effort to ensure that state compute resources are plugged into the global ecosystem of 
tech giants like Google, AWS, AZURE, Alibaba and many others, South Africa must reconfigure existing digital 
resources.  This initiative will form the basic building blocks to start the country on a 4IR trajectory. 
The Centre of High-Performance Computing (CHPC) is well placed to serve as government’s on premise 
super cloud unit comprised of a national grid of HPC capacity, white labelled multi-cloud capacity from 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
302  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  100
Hyper-scale data centres, Net-co managed connectivity network and an open data platform that sits above 
this CHPC managed HPC/Hyper-scale national grid.  
There first needs to be a reconfiguration of existing state computing resources resulting in a transfer of ownership 
for all of government’s high-performance computing resources resident across government (CHPC, SETA, 
Sentech, Broadband Infraco, Eskom, Transnet, and other similar state-owned enterprises) to the CHPC for 
management to serve as a foundation to promote technology-driven opportunities for local innovators. 
In addition to restructuring these existing computing resources, a grid of HPC facilities needs to be established 
in the strategic coastal provinces of KZN, Western Cape and Eastern Cape and the economic hub of Gauteng.    
State entities, national departments, province, municipality, metros, SOEs, universities, research centres, civil 
society organizations, and business (South African registered) would all have access to the reconfigured grid 
on a use-on-demand model for cloud, storage and computational power with an application programming 
interface (API).  The establishment of this high-performance computing (HPC) facilities grid needs to be 
supported by a solid foundation of big data and AI skills and knowledge. The CHPC in particular needs to 
have more expertise and capacity to assist clients to utilize HPC optimally. 
Participation at this global level requires international traffic carrying submarine cables to not only land but 
also connect our coastal towns and cities to Hyper-scale data centres in South Africa and abroad.    This local 
Hyper-scale data centre network in the coastal towns together with the grid of High-Performance Computing 
facilities would provide government with the required supercomputing capacity and virtual machines 
capacity. 
The robustness of the grid is dependent on connectivity. Therefore, under the management umbrella of Net-
Co, a restructuring and amalgamation of network resources of Broadband Infraco, Sentech, Eskom Telecom, 
SANRAL, Transnet, PRASA and SITA would happen. Net-Co would make virtual private network &SDN (VPN) and 
Internet connectivity available to entire national HPC grid, Hyper-scale data and State users.
8.3.4.2  Regional & Continental Grid
Africa’s population will reach two billion around 2050 and four billion by the end of this century. Computing, AI 
and Big data analytics are just as important for the region (SADC) and the continent (Africa) as to South Africa. 
Therefore, under the leadership of the African Union, regional and continental HPC councils are needed to 
guide SADC and the other regions in creating a grid of Africa’s high-performance computing. This grid should 
form part of the global grid of hyper scale and HPC.  
Open Data South Africa - Platform 
A National Open Data Strategy is necessary, detailing the processes and activities related to data treatment 
along the value chain from collection to use, while ensuring data privacy, promoting data security and 
driving open data-enabled innovations is necessary.  In the digital era, data is the unit of analysis.  Today 
quality data whenever, wherever and however drives industries.  Hyper scale and edge data centres form 
the backbone of the digital infrastructure. Mobility is proving that value lies not in moving things from point 
to point, Agriculture is not now just about production and sale of food and power is not just about keeping 
the lights on. Both agriculture and power, among many other areas, can be optimized using effective data 
collection and analysis. Both will require networks of sensors, some of which already exist. Therefore, a clear 
data strategy as a country is crucial.  We need to clearly state how the country will create new industries and 
digitally transform traditional industries to be part of the digital revolution.
Data is the most valuable resource of the fourth industrial revolution.  Access to quality data whenever and 
wherever enable global innovations and fuels digital economies.  Public data can assist policymakers to take 
evidence-based decisions, ensure state-public understanding, strengthen public trust, and encourage public 
engagement with political processes.  
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   303
page |  101
Currently millions of both private and public data sets and data points are becoming a commodity.  South 
Africa needs to encourage this new area to grow and mature with clear rules of self-regulation to protect 
individual privacy and secure citizen data.   It will be important to create a market structure that promotes 
South Africa as a preferred Big Data location for other countries to send their own data sets to create solutions.  
All state entities have a repository of data from their interactions with people and business that is stored in 
various public and private servers.  These public datasets range from Driver License, Traffic fines and Vehicle 
Data – National Traffic Information system, SARS Vat data, Property Data (Individual, Company or Trust), Court 
proceedings and CCMA Data, CIPC data, Birth data, Death Data, Social Grant Data, Deeds office data, 
Municipality bill data and Animal registration data and many more. Government must create an open big 
data platform that will make it possible to access to all this digital data housed within its future hyperscale 
with open application programming interfaces to those using the data to create products and solutions.   
Commercial pricing must be considered where appropriate for access to data by the private sector. Research 
access should be subject to a different pricing structure or should be free, where appropriate. 
South Africa must introduce a new speciality of open big data brokers to take public data from multiple 
Government sources, to analyse and exploit these data pools to create products and solutions. In the recent 
past the Department of Home Affairs collaborated with banks wherein ID fingerprints data was used by banks 
for identity verification. We need to explore this model across all government data bases while taking into 
account privacy and security.  Since data are a commodity, the public sector should retain ownership of all 
of its data and should ensure that its data are not owned by private sector firms which can hold the State to 
ransom, as happened with the NaTIS system. 
Government must also create data lakes within the CHPC platform to perform analysis and AI.  Data lakes 
contain data from the state and Internet data from, for example, social media together with other external 
data that are in structured or unstructured data sets. 
8.3.5  Resources
8.3.5.1  Institutional Restructure
In this section we look at the residual resources (public and private) needed to enable sustainable success of 
our 4IR national project.  These cover the restructuring of current institutional capacity and the building of new 
capacity, as well as establishing or promoting physical systems which will play a key role in the 4IR. 
We need to consolidate our current regulatory bodies because of the rapid trend of merging technologies. 
ICASA, POPI Regulator, Film and Publications Board must form one institution because everything will be 
online.
We talk about regulations and or regulating bodies in South Africa. What we need to establish is one regulator 
from the following organizations: ICASA, Film and Publications Board, POPIA, Cyber Security.
This new organization will deal with all the issues relating to the Internet, Social Media and Data and what was 
traditionally called the ICT Sector.
This new organization be independent (as ICASA is at present) and funded through the Department of 
Communications and Digital Technologies. The legislation establishing ICASA should guide the model of 
independence. 
8.3.5.2  Electromagnetic Spectrum South Africa (ESSA) 
Today’s technology evolution process is outpacing the ten-year cycles of IMT 2020 and beyond journey.  
There is a need for a private sector led radio/spectrum engineering and open source software research 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
304  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  102
platform. This initiative will collaborate with academia/research and all public sector institutions dealing with 
spectrum. Funding would to be set aside from the spectrum fees. ESSA’s primary objective is to carry out 
research and development in the interface of spectrum and software. 
The expertise required for ESSA would include Radio Engineers, Software Engineers and computer scientists.  
The recruitment drive would be in South Africa and the broader continent with an open employment policy 
to all Africans. ESSA would then collaborate with similar organizations worldwide like 3GPP , ETSI, 5GPP . It must 
however be emphasized that the primary role of ESSA is radio engineering and software. Its mandate would 
be research on the regulation of the spectrum and software systems used especially by the public sector (for 
example, by requiring all public sector entities to use open source software) and to identify key development 
areas in software and telecommunications where research should be funded. The ESSA should work closely 
with the universities to develop research into the basic and applied aspects of these topics and would not 
seek to replace them. 
Industry must negotiate with government, especially treasury, to set aside a portion of funds generated from 
spectrum fees towards this initiative (~20%).  The funding of the ESSA is a reinvestment to unlock the spectrum 
economy. Leveraging spectrum to stimulate the economy will further drive the Data Economy and contribute 
to innovation and entrepreneurial development. 
We need to establish a rural communications support program, to be managed by the private sector and 
government in partnership. We could use the Digital Fund for this purpose. Alternatively, the digital fund should 
operate like a Fund of Funds, rather than getting involved directly in funding projects. Funds are entrusted to 
Social Venture Capital Funds. These Social Venture Capital Funds must identify profitable rural Internet and 
digital services companies. They must then fund them, similar to how the IDC or DBSA does business. It will still, 
however, be necessary to find a vehicle to subsidize connections to most of the more remote rural districts, 
where telecommunications structures are usually not commercially viable. 
One of the most important areas that will advance the country towards 4IR is if we fully adopt Open Source 
Architecture and Infrastructure. Public and Private Sector should establish Open Source South Africa. (OSSA) 
This organization will drive Open Source Development in South Africa.  In the same way that South Africa is a 
member of the ITU, ICANN etc OSSA will join all the Open Source groups in the World and take an active role 
in the development of Open Source Infrastructure.  
8.3.6  Open Source South Africa (OSSA)
Software has grown to be central to everything and the Open Source communities are driving most innovation 
in the world. The IT sector is almost over 60% Open Source. The telecommunications sector is lagging behind. 
There are processes to drive Open Source in the 5G space and beyond. 
New developments are seeing Telecommunications networks built using white boxes (X86) and no more 
expensive proprietary IP infrastructure. While this is still new, it is gaining momentum. IoT architecture is driven 
by open source community. Even spectrum-based technologies such as Radio Access are now driven 
by virtualized open source technology. For Africa, this lands itself very well because of our past and the 
opportunity that technology will give to lower barriers to entry.  The intention of the Open Source community is 
to move workloads from hardware to software. As we all know proprietary hardware is what increases the cost 
of telecommunications infrastructure.
It is because of this background that Africa should be investing more in the open source software knowledge 
and skills. India and China have already taken this route giving these two countries strategic entry into 
the global technology eco-system.  South Africa should focus more on the software side of the 5G eco-
system because entry into software is not prohibitive. Open Source eco-system will ultimately be the driver 
of telecommunications eco-system including spectrum-based infrastructure.  Edge compute is using Open 
Source and spectrum is getting virtualized using open source technology. 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   305
page |  103
Open Culture 
Lastly, an open innovation culture needs to be fostered in order to ensure we are able to harness all the 
benefits of the 4IR collectively. We need to make use of non-proprietary platforms and hardware that are 
easily accessible to all. We need to emphasize the use of open infrastructure, both digital and physical. Open 
data laws that adhere to democratic principles need to be conceptualized. Open architecture for networks 
needs to be created to reduce the barriers to entry for new players in the infrastructure space. Seeing as 
democracy in the second machine age is borderless, in the digital world, we need to conceptualise laws that 
take into consideration such factors. 
Information modelling for future network designs 
New models are coming up with new ways to design the networks.  Work being done at the Open Network 
Foundation (ONF) suggests that we need to look at what is happening at the information level, not network 
level for designing the network.  Information modelling can be likened to understanding the characteristics 
of the information, information flows and patterns, including what kind of information, where is it from, where 
is it going and how is it getting there.  Information modelling argues for the analysis of information and uses 
that insight to inform the design of the network.   This is a test case for future infrastructure design models for 
SMART Networks.  
Today we design networks taking as many eventualities as possible into account irrespective of whether they 
will happen or not.  This could lead to a lot of wastage and inefficiencies in the network usage.  There is a shift 
from protocol models to software defined standards.  ONF SDN models – building solutions leverage network 
disaggregation, white box economics, open source software, software defined standards to revolutionize the 
carrier industry network.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Institute 
South Africa should legislate the establishment of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Institute (possibly situated in the 
Centre for Advanced Computing?) which will comprise a public-private partnership. It will be responsible to 
keep abreast of and support capacity building in:
• Neural networks
• Natural Language Processing (see annexure B)
• Computer vision
The AI institute will partner with TensorFlow and be part of all the current and future global initiatives of AI. As a 
result, the AI institute will be responsible for the country’s computer vision and deal with arising ethical issues 
but will not replace the role of the universities in carrying out basic research on these issues. .  
In the early 1940s UK Premier Winston Churchill  believed that we first shape our buildings, and thereafter 
these buildings shape us. Today we have - in addition to buildings - the full potential of 4IR digital smart 
technologies, which should have an even larger impact on humans. 
We should establish Institutional capacity (A 4IR neuroscience institute, situated at e.g. the CSIR) to participate 
in the recent global emergence of institutions to study the impact of 4IR technologies and their embedding 
in physical places and spaces on human mental wellbeing.  
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
306  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  104
Autonomous vehicle
The technology exists, despite sceptics who state that “rational” autonomous vehicle technology is not yet 
up to the task of dealing with irrational human drivers”.   Trials are underway and legislation in many countries 
promotes technology development by allowing increasing autonomous driving to be trialled (test beds) . 
Many trials have been launched with success. (See annexure C).  We need South Africa to enact legislation 
to enable a similar legal environment which promotes the development and use of Autonomous vehicles 
Testbeds.
Drones and Robotics infrastructure 
Cloud robotics is the combination of Cloud computing and robotics and is differentiated from traditional 
robotics by its use of teleoperation and cloud technologies. Other technologies which enable or enhance 
Cloud robotics include 5G, IoT and AI. The regulatory methodologies for incorporating drones into legal 
systems range from outright bans on the use of commercial drones, through to permissive legislation, to a 
strategy of waiting to observe the efficacy of other nations’ policies before acting. 
Blockchain infrastructure and electricity Infrastructure and Platform 
Initially associated with cryptocurrencies, Blockchain projects have been launched in other areas. (See 
Appendices 10, 11 and 12). Blockchain  “is a distributed ledger technology in the form of a distributed 
transactional database, secured by cryptography, and governed by a consensus mechanism” i.e. 
distributed ledgers recording transactions on a decentralized infrastructure. Blockchain, on the other hand, 
“offers infrastructure leaders the opportunity to not only increase efficiency and reduce costs, but evolve 
how physical commodities are distributed and consumed”.
98   Blockchains requires that all transactions be 
verified cryptographically, which then slows them down because they require a considerable amount of 
energy ensuing in a limitation to scaling.  Sierra Leone is the first nation to use blockchain technology for 
its elections, and the Estonian government is a very advanced user of Blockchain technology. They use 
it for digital government services such as online tax returns, e-Voting, mandatory national Identity cards, 
digital cabinet meetings, etc. Estonia is an exceptional digital innovator and provides cybersecurity advisory 
services to other countries and organisations (See next section).
Post Office physical infrastructure 
To be used for cases when government services cannot be accessed virtually. This could include instances 
with the elderly who may be uncomfortable with using virtual government services, or where government 
services are not accessed with free Wi-Fi. To promote agility, we should both allow skills to immediately be 
imported from outside South Africa on the condition that similar local skills also directly be developed to take 
over from overseas skills, in areas such as IoT, wireless and wired technologies, and cybersecurity.
Language Resources and 4IR
South Africa has 11 official languages, while countries like Zambia and or Cameroon have more than 200 
languages each. Nigeria has more than 300 languages. Africa is home of more than 2000 languages. Most 
of these languages are in West Africa. Most of these languages do not have a written word. They are mainly 
spoken languages. A number of research organizations have been working on approaches to record the 
history of these languages. Africa today has over One Billion people and it is predicted that by 2050 Africa will 
have double the population of today and by 2100 Africa will have over 4,3 Billion people. 
98 https://www.forbes.com/sites/ellistalton/2018/01/22/why-blockchain-is-key-to-transforming-how-physical-infrastructure-works-and-
how-we-think-about-it/#3702a14c4875
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   307
page |  105
In South Africa, the democratic parliament through legislation established the Pan South African Language 
Board - Act number 59 of 1995. The principle target of the Act is to advance and make conditions for the 
improvement and utilization of legitimate dialects. 
The website of PanSALB is abridged as pursues: 
• Develop the 11 official languages 
• Promote multilingualism 
• The constitution alludes to the foundation of PanSALB in segment 6 when portraying language 
rights. 
• “Initiate studies and research aimed at promoting and creating conditions for the development” 
of all the 11 official languages plus Khoe and San and South African sign language.
99 Another 
PanSALAB focus is lexicography and terminology. This is done through nine lexicography units. This 
are based in South African universities.
Modern Language Development
In the digital world languages are developed online. Most developed world Lexicons are digital. This means 
that the language’s vocabulary and dictionaries are amended in the software code of major word processing 
such as Word or Google Docs etc. Similarly, these languages are searchable in all major search engines such 
as Google, Bing, Safari or Yahoo. 
8.3.7  Global Lexicon ecosystem 
Lexicon development is one of the fastest growing sectors in the digital world. Organizations such as World 
Wide Web Consortium (W3C), Unicode Consortium, ICANN, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and many 
others are working to develop standards in the dictionary, language, and code. 
These developments require resources and qualified teams of engineering and linguists to effectively 
participate and contribute in these global developments. 
South Africa is not active at all in these forums. This is visible through the work being done by our local 
lexicon units and language research teams. The language that has kept abreast of all these developments 
is Afrikaans. In Japan, technologies have been developed to provide direct translation between Japanese 
language and English.
A good example is if you write a Xhosa word in this word processor, the word will be underlined red. This is the 
same in the mobile phone as it is in computers. 
Natural language processing, a discipline of AI, can only work with data and language that machines 
understand. If we really want to participate in 4IR we need to “digitize” African languages. This process will 
require people who understand the granularity of this task and where to start.  It is, however, not an impossible 
task. Software is available, what is needed are skills to code. 
The initiative will require a budget and leadership. It is recommended that a Task Team be established with 
full resources and commence with this task no later than 2021. 
2020 can be a year of training coders. The SETA responsible for the arts can finance this program. 
99   https://cisp.cachefly.net/assets/articles/attachments/03470_pansoutafrlanboaaa10.pdf
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
308  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  106
The Task Team must also work with ZADNA in order to protect South African domain names as they represent 
the country’s heritage. The names of places and plants that represent heritage are being taken by individuals 
for social and business use.
The same Task Team must also look at Wikipedia in particular with regards to the correctness of the history of 
South Africa. The Task Team will advise on how best to address this challenge.
Innovative Energy Distribution
Energy consumption is set to increase exponentially in the next 10 years mainly driven by the growth of the 
technology sector. The communications sector is projected to use 20% of the world’s electricity by 2025. 
There are an estimated 17 billion connected devices, with IoT devices making up 7 billion of this figure. This 
number is expected to increase to 34.2 billion by 2025. WhatIs estimates that energy consumption of wireless 
cloud technologies increased 460% between 2012 and 2015. 
The increase of internet-connected devices have been described as a “new round of household electrification”. 
This indicates that we need to rethink how we generate and distribute energy. South Africa’s main generator 
and supplier of energy, Eskom needs to revise its business model if it wishes to serve the needs of hyper scale 
data centres in South Africa. If not, there must be a provision that allows for hyper scale data centre owners 
to build their power stations. Both Facebook and Google only utilise green energy for their hyper scale data 
centres. The same must be allowed in South Africa.
As South Africa plans for how we manage the growth of the digital economy, we need to think about how 
we generate and consume electricity.  The primary power producer in South Africa, Eskom, was built to serve 
the growing electricity needs of the mining sector in Gauteng. The founding Chairman of Eskom stated that 
cheap and reliable electricity was the most essential tool in driving industrial development in South Africa. 
The same thinking must be applied when analysing the growing technology sector and its energy demands 
in our country. With that being said, this section will explore power consumption in the digital economy and 
fourth industrial revolution and provide recommendations for how South African can find innovative ways to 
serve the growing electricity demand. 
Power consumption in the digital economy requires innovative ways of generating and supplying electricity. 
Global technology companies such as Google and Facebook utilize green energy in most of their data 
centres, eliminating their reliance on the national grid. In Ireland data centres are projected to consume 
one in every 3kWh generated by the year 2025. Put simply, a third of all electricity generated will be used by 
data centres. This excludes electricity usage by IoT devices and other forms of technology. To mitigate risks in 
scenarios like this we must give data centres the autonomy to generate and distribute electricity themselves. 
Clean energy sources must be promoted such as solar and wind. With a growing demand for bandwidth, 
power consumption is set to rise. It will be extremely difficult for the government to be the sole provider of 
electricity. According to Van Heddenghem, electricity consumed by digital devices and infrastructures is 
growing faster than 7% per year. Global electricity demand is set to grow at 3%.  The emergence of hyper 
scale data centres has led to companies like Google signing exclusive Power Purchase Agreements(PPAs) 
with several European governments. These agreements allow Google to buy power from renewable energy 
plants at an agreed price on a long-term basis.  Since 2010 Google alone has enabled 3 Billion Euros 
investments into renewable energy projects globally. These agreements are beneficial in helping countries to 
reach their environmental objectives. Google is currently the largest buyer of renewable energy in the world. 
This should not, however, be seen as an alternative to the large technology companies paying a fair share of 
tax in the countries in which they operate. 
The energy requirements of edge computing also require alternative clean sources of power. Each 1mW 
of data received at the edge requires -18,000x -60,000x(19-60W) of power generated at the power plant. 
Increasing IoT devices are require power to compute at the edge. The emergence of 5G has also led to 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   309
page |  107
higher energy consumption. Given that 5G is set to be the driver of IoT devices, edge computing and small 
cells will require reliable and cheap energy. 5G has multiple power challenges such as 1000x traffic with over 
100000 more devices connected. South Africa’s reliance on coal as our main power source will no longer 
be feasible given its impact on the global environment. It is for this reason this section advocates for the use 
of clean energy sources. 
If we wish to meet the power demands of the digital economy and fourth industrial revolution, we need to 
efficiently use power. In terms of efficient power usage, South Africa needs to leverage Artificial Intelligence 
to help improve energy efficiency. This can be done on an individual, municipal and national level. Google 
currently makes use of DeepMind AI to reduce its energy consumption by over 30% in its hyper scale data 
centres. Google does this by using sensors to collect data on power consumption and feeds it into the 
DeepMinds neural network which then identifies what actions Google can take to minimise energy usage 
while also satisfying all of its constraints. This can be applied to micro and macro energy grids all over South 
Africa. AI application in energy enables demand-side flexibility, both on the price and incentive. This plays a 
big role in reducing overall costs. However, the savings in energy consumption at the macro-level are unlikely 
to be on the same scale as the controlled environment within a hyperscale data centre. 
Built Environment
-      Smart Harbours
It is noted that global trade is increasing, vessel sizes and cargo volumes have increased substantially, placing 
additional pressure on ship berths, yards and the broader harbour infrastructure. As the 4IR era is in motion, 
ports are therefore becoming increasingly interested in smart solutions that will help optimise operations, 
promote efficiency and reduce logistics costs, all without requiring major investment in new infrastructure 
and equipment. Major Significant shipping transportation paths go along the South African coastline in the 
south Atlantic and Indian seas. Around 96% of the country’s exports are passed on via ocean, and the eight 
business ports are the courses for exchange between South Africa and its southern African accomplices 
just as center points for traffic to and from Europe, Asia, the Americas and the east and west shorelines of 
Africa. Turnaround times for stacking and offloading at SA ports are much more slow than those for example 
Singapore. The utilization of data analytics and AI should assume a significant role in modernizing the ports 
and drastically expanding their productivity. 
-      Smart Railways
South Africa has a broad rail network – the fourteenth longest on the planet – associating with systems in the 
sub-Saharan area. The country’s rail foundation, which interfaces the ports with the remainder of South Africa, 
speaks to about 80% of Africa’s aggregate. 
Improving the country’s 20 247km rail system is a top government need, with ventures intending to expand 
cargo rail volumes and increment piece of the overall industry of compartment traffic. In Oct 2018, Transnet 
tested successfully the first 4km goods train, in future it will increase manganese volumes railed between the 
mines in Hozatel through Sishen to Saldanha, 
In general, the freight and passenger rail networks are extremely inefficient. Much more use must be made 
of sensors, data analytics and AI to improve the efficiency of the rail networks, including maintenance and 
operations, dispatch, scheduling, signalling and other functions.  
41R
Technologies
Commercialisation
Close innovation chas
Combine tecks to sol
problems
Industry
Upgrade Existing
Create New
Economy-14
Trade
Growth
iKlmoMSkY GKSIMIY
J/Protlwl:on CaPatPy
Needs 1 Pro
DI
(doing. wins s
imaia=,y)
Connlwaiallvlron
MMUSlwlisxion
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
310  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  108
8.4  ECONOMY GROWTH AND INCLUSIVITY 
8.4.1 South Africa Diagnostic
In South Africa the context of Commercialization and Industrialization is for financial and economic benefit 
through the alleviation of poverty, inequality, and unemployment as outlined in the NDP . Technologies of 4IR 
have been in existence for some time, thus opportunities are on enabling commercialization, upgrading 
existing industries and creation of new industries. Identify 4IR technologies fit to solve challenges facing South 
Africa. Figure 45 shows a proposed approach.
Figure 45: A proposed approach to commercialisation and industrialization
The proposed approach and all activities leading and related to commercialization and industrialization take 
place within the ambit of the South Africa national system of innovation. The precondition is identification of 
needs/problems, the start to solve is either through basic and applied R&D, and/or learning by doing, using 
and interacting (DUI). The output is then translated into commercially viable products and services, and as 
identified by the OECD in 2007 the innovation chasm persist in the South Africa national system of innovation. 
The innovation chasm remain a challenge, and the work of the Commission must aim to offer new insights 
and way forward. Figure 46 shows the conceptualisation from idea to commercialization and industrialization.
Figure 46: A conceptualisation of idea to commercialisation and industrialization

Technology
1
Application
Application
Application
I
Product 7 Service
Product! Service
Product 7 Service
Product! Service
Product! Service
1
Market
4
Market
1
Market
.iMarket
7Market
Market
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   311
page |  109
Technology can lead to many commercialization and industrialization opportunities, as show in Figure 47. 
Figure 47: The Technology, Application, Product/Service and Market framework
Source: Amadi-Echendu and Rasetlola (2011)
8.4.2  4IR industries of focus
While many look at it with only the eyes of emerging fusion of technologies like Artificial Intelligence and 
Data Sciences; the fourth industrial revolution really present more than that for South Africa. As we interrogate 
the entire value chain of this revolution which in a holistic manner, we see that this very technology and low 
carbon future that is brought by the fourth industrial revolution is unthinkable without energy storage in order to 
level renewable energy sources. It is true that Fourth Industrial Revolution encompasses the Internet of Things, 
however, goes beyond simple device connectivity toward being an Internet of Everything. The realization 
of 4IR requires sustainable energy supply, with climate change on the doorstep the energy system must 
transition to low carbon. 
Looking at the initial stages of the 4IR, there is one component that plays a critical role; Calcium Fluorite 
(CaF2) also known as Fluorspar. Fluorspar is a mineral made basically out of calcium fluoride (CaF2). It is 
commonly categorised by CaF2 content as either metallurgical level (60% to 85%), clay grade (85% to 96%) 
or corrosive grade (97%+). Acidspar is the most noteworthy type of fluorspar and has the most noteworthy 
aberrant use in downstream businesses. In the Fourth Industrial Revolution CaF2 is setting off to be a significant 
player in crude material. Fluorspar is the overwhelming source for the synthetic component fluorine (F), and 
attributable to F’s extraordinary concoction properties, it is to a great extent vital in its utilization. A portion of 
its uses include steel pickling, aluminium refining, fluoropolymers and fluorochemicals, making fluorspar vital 
to driving the computerized financial growth later on. 
Fluorite is a broadly occurring mineral, which is found in enormous deposits in numerous zones. Eminent 
deposits happen in China, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, England, Norway, Mexico, and both the territories 
of Ontario and Newfoundland and Labrador, in Canada, with the biggest deposits being in South Africa. The 
steel and aluminum industry have the most popular demands for the substance while fluoropolymer and 
fluorochemical industry, evaluated development rates that compare to levels of over 50% over the normal 
worldwide gross domestic product (GDP) development rate of about 2.35%. Though South Africa has the 
largest reserve of CaF2, Asian Pacific (APAC) is accounted for the maximum share of the global fluorspar 
market. The APAC fluorspar market is driven by the presence of robust automotive manufacturing industry, 
which keeps the demand high for steel and aluminium However with the advent of the Fourth Industrial 
Revolution a bigger demand will be that of battery storage, specifically Lithium ion (Li-ion) batteries. 

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
312  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  110
Li-ion batteries are found in electronics, mobile phones, laptops, tablets, Electric Cars, Robots and other 
machinery. These are all hardware components of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Li-ion batteries consist of 
three major elements: Lithium Hexafluorophosphate (LiPF6), Electrolytes and Cathodes. 
Fluorochemicals Salient market characteristics are as follows: The global fluorochemicals market size is 
anticipated to be valued at USD 31.28bn by 2024, at which point it is expected to reach 5.49mn tons; the 
global fluorochemicals market share is fragmented, with large number of manufacturers, such as DuPont, 
Daikin, Solvay, Asahi Glass, Arkema and Honeywell and Dongyue, dominating the international market. NECSA 
HF subsidiary, Pelchem remains a leading regional player in the industry; and in South Africa, a large growth 
is expected in the industry with the completion of the Nokeng open pit mine in Gauteng province. This mine 
will utilise two deposits, with an expected 630, 000 tpa crude fluorspar ore, 180,000 tpa Acidspar and 30,000 
tpa Metspar. First production from the mine was expected in January/February 2019.
Other country’s key economic sectors
China focuses on electronics production, India focuses on software, Brazil focuses on Small Business for 
services, German on Precision Manufacturing.  What could South Africa focus on? With abundant sun and 
win, energy storage has potential to transform South Africa’s energy mix, thus provide sustainable energy in 
the era of 4IR.  
State of SA today
The GDP of South Africa increased by 3.1% in the second quarter of the year 2019 as announced by Statistic 
South Africa. The mining and quarrying industry increased by 14.4% and contributed 1.0 percentage points 
to GDP development. Increased generation was accounted for mining of iron mineral, manganese metal, 
coal and ‘other’ metal ores including platinum. Finance, land and business services increased by 4.1% in 
the subsequent quarter. Increased monetary action was accounted for money related intermediation, land 
exercises and business administrations. The exchange, food provision and settlement industry increased by 
3.9%. Increased monetary action was accounted for in all exchange divisions aside from the nourishment 
and refreshments major group. General taxpayer supported organizations increased by 3.4%, fundamentally 
credited to an expansion in work. Conversely, the farming, forestry and fishing and development ventures 
diminished by 4.2% and 1.6% respectively and each contributed -0,1 of a percentage point to GDP growth. 
The unadjusted genuine GDP at market costs for the initial half year of 2019 increased by 0.4% contrasted 
with the initial half year of 2018. On the social side, South Africa is characterised by high levels of poverty, 
unemployment and inequality. As such and without a suitable response, the era of 4IR could make things 
worse. How our economy is structured:
8.4.3  Current GDP contributions
Nominal GDP Q3 contribution:
1. Finance contribution: 20%
2. Government services: 18%
3. Trade: 15%
4. Manufacturing: 13%
5. Transport & Communication 10% 
6. Mining: 8%
7. Agriculture: 16%
GDP Growth Rate ( %)
41111041111,
Roerosams GDP n usoenti
Cnnsumptlon (USE) bn)
4111.010 OP
2,,.t
I.
SCommmplwnaaaMdGDP
GOP per Capìta (USO
i
Net ExponS (USD be)
41111101111110.1110
104 n
111
- Repremnb Poptlnn in minNott-apens at eMof GOV
Gross Irrvestment (ZAR bn)Govt. Debt IUSD be)
4111110411041111110elo4110 -
I I I
IMOtv.xlm.nlaxa "tor GDP- Gran_ Oaetaaa%oIGDP
WO CO40 d/v O
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   313
page |  111
8.4.4  Sectors that are growing vs shrinking
In 2016, a decrease in production in the mining and manufacturing sectors led to reduced growth and GDP 
of South Africa. 2017, however saw the recovery of the economy, returning the growth to 1.3%. 
Major economic indicators for South Africa (2015-2017) are shown below: 
Figure 64: Major economic indicators for South Africa (2015-2017)
Although, in the last decade, the services sector has, by far, been the largest contributor to South Africa’s GDP . 
Growth in Manufacturing (which includes chemicals) has been more moderate. 
Composition of South Africa’s GDP (ZAR tn, 2008-2017) is show below:
Figure 65: Composition of South Africa’s GDP (ZAR tn, 2008-2017)

This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
314  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  112
8.4.5  SA 4IR Opportunities, Centres of Excellence 
Consultation with the public urged that 4IR must viewed with the lenses to solve on challenges facing South 
Africa. SMMEs are viewed are central to the challenge of poverty and unemployment, thus ensuring SMMEs 
participation is critical.   For industries 4IR must be viewed in the context of industrial challenges, one being 
strengthening and upgrade of existing industries through adoption of technology and/or combination. 
Innovation is the overacting concept to enable commercialization of technologies, thus strengthening 
the national system of innovation. Challenges in industries include high operating and maintenance cost, 
shutdown cost, aging and outdated machinery, workforce skills mismatch, etc. The focus on developing new 
industry, sector and firm level capabilities was emphasised.  On new industries, 4IR could enable new and 
grass roots innovation to emerge. For South Africa this is imperative for achieving an inclusive society. Policy 
relevance and alignment to enable the realisation of 4IR emerged strong. 
Opportunities must be created to prepare studentpreneurs and overall entrepreneurship development across 
higher education for new SMMEs. Intellectual property law, where universities hold the IP on new ideas, was 
raised as a bottleneck to commercialization. On the basis of commercialization being about creating value 
for gain – economic and/or social - it implies that South Africa is missing out on developing opportunities for 
gain. In essence, the current national system of innovation reinforces the innovation chasm. A review of the IP 
system and associated policies, laws and regulations are necessary, and it must emphasise anticipation of the 
4IR world. Current instruments meant to drive innovation are found to be failing, a need to review mandate, 
and either strengthen, remove or implement new suitable instruments. Collaboration among government, 
large companies and SMMEs was raised as a key. A need to understand barriers for collaboration across 
industries, sectors and value chain is recommended. 
A definition of an enabling environment must be established, and it must allow for circumstance and context. 
Opportunities require different enabling environments to thrive. Resources are available in South Africa; it is 
viewed as failure to make effective use of the resources with reinforcing loops for progress. Grant, funding and 
financing instruments are not coordinated; thus, windows of opportunities are being missed. A review of the 
overall national system of innovation is encouraged. Adoption of 4IR technologies would require new business 
models, thus guiding industry for adoption of new business models is essential. Mechanism to encourage 
innovation across industries must be investigated. Perhaps consider an approach of ecosystems for different 
opportunities. 
8.5  STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS AND GOVERNANCE 
Globally, efforts are under way to adapt policy and regulatory regimes in order to harness the 4IR to 
achieve national and international goals. This effort spans both developed and developing countries, both 
democracies and authoritarian states, and both cultural and ideological divides. The USA, the EU, China, and 
Russia, amongst many others, are accelerating policy and legislative reforms in order to harness technological 
change to meet national objectives. In the UK all new legislation will be challenged for any negative impacts 
on innovation, and a new Regulatory Horizons Council will be set up to consider how to support the ‘rapid and 
safe’ introduction of new technology.  In South Africa, the process is under way, and the PC4IR plays a critical 
role: we aim to provide recommendations to guide the actions of both legislators and policy makers within 
government to implement a coherent national response. 
The thematic scope of such policy and legislative reform is vast. It covers the thematic domains of each of the 
Work Streams of the Commission, and more. Since the technologies of the 4IR have the potential to impact 
on every economic sector and on every sphere of private life, the 4IR is positioned as a ‘cross-cutting’ policy 
and legislative consideration. Some examples (not covering the full scope of the 4IR) include policy and 
legislation related to data access, data privacy, education, skills development, research and development, 
industrial policy, trade, business development, AI, cyber-security, biotechnology, and autonomous vehicles, 
amongst many others. The work stream will engage with specialist researchers to develop a detailed mapping 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   315
page |  113
of global regulatory responses to the 4IR, to serve as a baseline for the development of recommendations 
for South Africa. 
The WEF suggests that “Industry self-regulation is a key governance tool in many industries, such as healthcare, 
mining or professional sports, and can also be applied to speed up appropriate governance of the use of 
technology in new industries.” This is an area that South Africa may explore. What is clear is that we require 
experts and a variety of stakeholders to collaborate to define and shape the required policy and legal 
frameworks and ethically driven principles to ensure that regulation, policies and laws do not slow down the 
uptake of 4IR.
Government must design policy processes which allow for the active participation of users and citizens 
such as persons with disabilities, people living in rural areas with no access to internet, educational 
institutions, academics and any individual with an interest in the matter. This collaborative principle offers an 
advantage from traditional policy processes, where “there can be a gap between policy development and 
implementation because the policy has been formulated in isolation from its users.”
100 
100   http://pdronline.co.uk/blog/2017/09/people-powering-policy
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
316  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  114
CHAPTER NINE: Recommendations
9.1  INTRODUCTION
After extensive research, analysis, consultations, and stakeholder engagements, a number of recommendations 
have arisen. The Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution has categorised these 
recommendations as major and minor, in relation to their priority levels.
9.2  KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
Collectively, these reports reflect the key findings of the Commission, namely:
9.2.1 Invest In Human Capacity related to 4IR
On a more fundamental level, we must attempt to initiate changes which are catalytic to structural change, 
as it is inevitable that the education system will evolve structurally to reflect the architecture of the 4th industrial 
revolution over time. Thought must be given to flexibility, agility, speed of accreditation, integration of learning 
streams, mobility of learners, remote content delivery, cognitive flexibility and the use of technology to enable 
the efficiency of the skills delivery system. The 4IR economy requires an approach to skills characterised 
by competencies which are micro-credentialed, industry aligned and allow people to enter and exit the 
system at multiple points as part of a lifelong learning process. Qualifications become less important than 
competency and skills such as creativity, critical thinking, problem solving are central to skilling in this new 
era, requiring a focus on both STEM and arts, humanities and entrepreneurship education simultaneously. 
Technology enabled platforms can be used to streamline these processes. The need for social scientists 
will increase as there is a requirement to navigate complex human issues of ethics, wellbeing, identity etc. 
in this new era of cyber-physical integration as it impacts and shapes our culture. Technical proficiency in 
relevant digital skills also becomes paramount. Investments in the current and future workforce are also 
central to success in the 4IR. This includes the immediate requirement to reskill the youth and retrain the 
current workforce for future skills. Workforce skills development also entails the introduction of micro-learning 
into all disciplines to ensure that professional development is continuous and enables worker flexibility.
9.2.2  Build Infrastructure and owning some significant 4IR infrastructure, such as hyperscale data centres, 
fibre-optic network and undersea cables. 
Digital Infrastructure is the bedrock of the country’s 4IR future.  To this end, this Commission recommends the 
accelerated implementation of the Policy On High Demand Spectrum and Policy Direction on The Licensing 
Of a Wireless Open Access Network (WOAN) as a step towards universalising access to the internet, particularly 
for the poor and geographically isolated. Social Infrastructure, that is, the basic services that are foundational 
to a country’s economy, are central to achieving the society, industries, and the economy of the future. 
As such, the production and delivery of energy; the extension and improvement of water infrastructure to 
enable water desalination; health, especially in enabling the National Health Insurance (NHI) implementation 
and educational infrastructure inclusive of augmented and alternative communication systems for people 
with learning disabilities. are not only necessary for transitioning to the 4IR but are fundamental for wellbeing.  
9.2.3  Create Platforms For Citizen Participation. 
The 4IR must become a citizen’s initiative, rooted in communication amongst sectors of society, to ensure 
awareness, inclusive participation and a collaborative construction of the desired path forward. To this end, 
the work of the Commission should be viewed as ongoing to the extent that consensus building will be a 
continuous process.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   317
page |  115
9.2.4  Establish a creative AI, Big Data Analytics, Blockchain, and Cybersecurity
Institute alongside an African AI Forum. The establishment of the creative 4IR institute will focus on African 4IR 
solutions in the areas of Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, Mathematics, Innovation and Entrepreneurship 
(#STEAMIE). The creative 4IR Institute may drive a continental music on blockchain initiative for resolving the 
issue of payment of royalties for Artists from waiting for years within a space of 24 hours. Research and 
Development capabilities are critical and must be embedded within the state, for the generation of new 
knowledge and relevant technology applications in sectors such as health, agriculture, education, energy, 
manufacturing, amongst others. The institute’s mandate should also include training, to be delivered across 
various sections of society.
9.2.5 Own government strategic data and secure Citizens’ Data
Data sovereignty will save money for the government and create new income streams when the data is 
mined. Big Data Analytics will enable the government to make data driven decisions and develop data 
driven policies. The principal opportunity in the 4IR is the storage of large sums of data. This is critical for 
building e-government services across sectors such as health, transport and justice. However, this opportunity 
must be safeguarded through the bolstering of cybersecurity capacity and capabilities. For instance, the 
state’s existing cybersecurity company, Comsec, could be strengthened to execute its mandate in a manner 
that is relevant for the requirements of the 4IR.
9.2.6  Incentivise Future Industries and Applications of 4IR Technologies
For the industries of the future to emerge, new forms of incentives are required, incorporating subsidies and 
tax breaks, to support the acquisition and application of advanced technologies in the manufacturing of 
goods and delivery of services. The DTIC acknowledges the country’s position as a laggard in digital or smart 
industries and will require support to develop SMMEs into globally competitive industrial players. It is envisaged 
that the emerging SMMEs, working in technology fields, will develop solutions that address South Africa’s 
development challenges as well as unemployment and service delivery. The state, as the largest and most 
powerful purchaser in the country, has a significant role to play in the application of 4IR technologies across 
priority sectors.
9.2.7 Update Regulation
Finally, to achieve the above changes, the regulatory environment must be adapted to enable the desired 
progress. This exercise requires the legislature to be trained to become science literate in order to implement 
changes that are holistic, integrating the specific logics of technologies, the industries they impact, the people 
who will both consume and produce them and the agility requirements to compete on a global stage.
9.3  EXTENDED RECOMMENDATIONS
• Implement 4IR safety and security smart surveillance systems at all our borders and ports in order 
to monitor porous borders while creating smart ports. Porous borders are the biggest threat to 
South African’s safety and security. There are persistent safety and security issues at our ports. 
Our smart surveillance system would enable a proactive approach in dealing with our porous 
borders and our ports.
• Establish a 4IR fund building on the current Universal Access and Service Fund (UASF) that is 
expanded to cover more sectors. Economic participation, entrepreneurship, prosperity, wealth 
creation and future of jobs, especially for the youth, women and people with disabilities, in the 
4IR era. The 4IR fund will among other vital deliverables assist in positioning Africa as the world 
leader in the provision of new minerals that drive 4IR.
• Ownership of a government Southern African Development Community (SADC) geostationary 
telecommunications satellite for quality connectivity of marginalised communities in the SADC 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
318  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  116
region, at no cost to them, so that they may access 4IR applications, especially for smart health, 
smart learning, smart ammunition, smart minerals, smart agriculture, smart contracts and smart 
financial services.  The bird will create an enabling environment that opens opportunities for 
shared economy that will empower all Africans to change their material social conditions 
and alleviate poverty, inequality and youth unemployment. We will create the much-needed 
redundancy by large global enterprises. The geostationary satellite will add value in setting up 
an African central exchange for voice, data and other communication media. It will also enable 
smart contract for the African Continental Free Trade Agreements (AfCFTA). The SADC-owned 
geostationary satellite will result in significant increase in gross domestic product (GDP).
• South Africa’s industrial policy should be revisited in the light of 4IR
• An Institute which makes legislature scientifically literate should be established.
• A universal database should be maintained by ARC for agriculture, MRC for health, ARMSCOR 
and Denel for security, Department of Tourism for tourism, and Department of Transport for 
mobility.
• SAASTA, South African National Space Agency and Denel should investigate the application of 
Drone Technology 
• NEDLAC should investigate and make available the jobs of the future
• South Africa should explore the creation of risk capital fund
• Establish the Post Bank as a state-owned bank that will be a digital bank, which will incorporate 
4IR systems like Artificial Intelligence and blockchain technology. This bank will be sustained 
through funds from the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) as well as government 
departments in the way that they pay their suppliers, employees as well as all stakeholders.
• Redesign/Alignment of the skills ecosystem for agility necessary for 4IR learning
• Prioritise the coordination of the various components and systems within the complete skills 
ecosystem to a new configuration which is fit for purpose for the skills demands of the 4IR era 
i.e. Stackable competencies which are micro-credentialed, industry aligned and allow people 
to enter and exit the system at multiple points as part of a lifelong learning process, introducing 
relevant technology and devices and  digital and future skills (competency skills, digital literacy 
skills).This systemic change process should be facilitated at the Human Resources Development 
Council as a priority project for 2020 i.e. have a timeframe associated to the deliverable, 
assisted by the 4IR Commission and driven by the Digital & Future Skills Forum. Link this ecosystem 
to cradle to grave nodal network, driven by AI within and across ecosystem components  to 
perform the function of coordination and streamlining. Use the national Digital Skills Strategy as 
an overarching guideline strategy for skills alignment.
• Establish a national project for teacher upskilling in digital literacy, critical thinking and creativity 
skills. Reimagine the role of the teacher in the classroom where they are not the source of 
knowledge but the facilitators of learning by creating our own solutions that empower the child, 
the teacher and the parents to support their children irrespective of their level of education. 
Focus on continuously equipping teachers on the subject matter they are teaching, not just the 
5-day, 10-day workshops by creating blended earning platforms. Universities can ensure that 
every teacher can understand 4IR and the curriculum especially in the foundation phase where 
one teacher teaches all the subjects
• Invest in relevant infrastructure – develop minimum infrastructure recommendation for schools 
for 4IR e.g. DBE must work towards every school having access to internet and no less than 25 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   319
page |  117
computers and a printer, a dedicated room as a maker space for robotics curriculum and a 
basic set of music and art equipment
• Provide resources for urgent roll out of ECD learning centres
• Resource the Department of Basic Education With 4IR Strategic Advisory Capacity -
a)  To drive the implementation of coding & robotics curriculum
b)  Provide resources for urgent implementation of national roll out of ECD so that 4IR skills 
can also go to this level
• Innovate and realign the Seta’s by creating a framework that guides the scope, budget 
allocations and priority skills development areas relevant to South Africa’s 4IR strategy, including 
the necessary legislative amendments. 
• Rethink TVET colleges roles as micro learning institutions providing 4IR relevant competencies.
• Adequately resource the South African Qualifications Authority to design, test and implement 
technology solutions for faster turn-around times for accreditation processes.
• Consider innovating qualifications assessment criteria to allow for flexible learning pathways and 
erasing of the boundaries between learning centres and the workplace e.g. broaden definition 
of unit standards. 
• Align skills development funding instruments
• Introduce foundation skills (digital literacy, literacy and numeracy) and competency skills 
(creativity, critical thinking, complex problem solving) in ECD and primary education
• Resource DBE for implementation of the coding and robotics curriculum
• Develop industry informed academic, vocational and occupational curriculum for secondary 
education with career pathway opportunities for students i.e. invest in industry value chain 
partnerships with skills institutions and school for learner uptake into jobs.
• Mainstream the arts in ECD and Primary school: A properly run arts programme in schools has both 
cognitive and social benefits, particularly for children from ECD through primary school levels, 
where their cognitive development potential is in its prime. These include critical thinking skills, 
increased IQ, increased creativity and abstraction ability, and a positive impact on other other 
learning areas, literacy and reading skills and potentially improved mathematics performance. 
Key studies on the impact of music for example on learning show that engagement with musical 
activities develops the spatial reasoning, visual spatial intelligence and perception ability areas 
of the brain. This means that process ability, conceptual ability, memory and recall, social 
and kinaesthetic intelligences and mathematical ability are directly impacted by engaging 
with these activities. Use the existing Creative Art subject in the CAPS curriculum to stimulate 
whole brain cognitive development, creativity and critical thinking by innovating the current arts 
curriculum to provide properly designed music and arts education in ECD and the phases of 
primary school. The curriculum does not have to be changed, but merely enriched. Pilot this in 
a community across several schools or in a district for measurement, evaluation and replication 
on a wider scale.
• STEAMIE not STEM Education: By the same token, STEM learning without the arts, innovation and 
entrepreneurship is limiting. The reference to the arts doesn’t just imply the creative arts disciplines, 
but the Social Sciences in general. The priority skills in the 4IR era are competency skills (‘soft‘ 
skills) coupled with technical skills. The need for social scientists will increase as the requirement 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
320  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  118
to navigate complex human issues of ethics, wellbeing, identity etc. in the 4 IR environment 
increases. The articulation of how we interact as humans with this new cyber-physical integration 
as our reality and how this defines us and shapes our culture is the preserve of a new generation 
of social scientists. The jobs of the future are predicted to require more sophisticated social and 
human skills as technology automates many jobs. It is these elements of competency that will 
set a job seeker apart in the 4 IR environment. All technical and scientific training should include 
a mandatory social science subject/module/focus to provide a balanced and competency 
driven skills profile.
• Leverage the youth demographic to establish South Africa as a nett exporter of skills in the digital 
economy. South Africa’s large youth population is ideally positioned to provide critical skills to 
global markets in the digital economy
• Creation of a 4IR Horizontal SETA: 4IR focus should be imbedded into the SETAs by amending 
the Chapter 3 and Chapter 7 of the Skills Development Act to specify that SETA’s will have a 
focus on 4IR related skills development initiatives that will attract a set-aside budget. In order for 
this to happen, a framework needs to be created to qualify what falls within the scope of 4IR. 
In years 1-2, the SETA’s would be required to ensure that 20% of their annual budget is spent 
on 4IR-related initiatives. In years 3-5 this would increase to 50%. Thereafter SETA’s would be 
expected to have all of their budget aligned to relevant 4IR related initiatives by 2028. 4IR would 
be mainstream by then. Coordination across SETAs is of utmost importance. A separate entity (a 
horizontal or super-SETA) needs to oversee the 4IR-related initiatives and have SLA’s signed with 
the vertical SETA’s.
• Invest in strategic projects for mass skills development and industry uptake in high growth 
potential industries. Initiatives should be scalable for exponential labour market absorption and 
skills pipeline development. Engage in skills development PPP initiatives across all of the identified 
high-growth potential industries. A portion of the skills development levy (SDL) can be used for 
funding the “PUBLIC PARTICIPATION” part of the PPP initiative.  Establish a cradle-to-grave nodal 
network, driven by artificial intelligence, within and across sectors. This will enable a skills pipeline 
linking skills related market demand with an identified talent pool. Skills development courses 
should be competency based and stackable. This will enable quick turnaround times (as soon 
as 3 months) in terms of skilling and deployment into industry. In addition, multiple exit streams 
viz. employment, outsourcing and entrepreneurship is part of the nodal network. This creates 
flexibility in the system, resulting in opportunity for every individual to realise their full potential. 
• Resource and scale the NTIP initiative’s model, approach and platform for the manufacturing 
sector and extend to other industries such as the creative industries, tourism and agriculture. 
NTIP currently has a working model for the manufacturing sector. The model allows a systemic 
approach to an industry sector with whole value chain participation which is industry driven. The 
underlying nodal platform driven by AI provides a coordinating mechanism which makes the 
system efficient, proactive and comprehensive. Funding should come from the Seta’s for these 
projects. The approach will create a skills pipeline linking skills related market demand with an 
identified talent pool and can show results within a short period of time without sacrificing depth 
and quality of skills and human capacity development in a multi-dimensional fashion.
• Leverage YES Programme: Youth Employment Service - link this programme to actual vacancies 
in emerging industries - include 4IR skills training in the time they are with the sponsor - link the 
youth to fulltime jobs and vacancies in that entity or other organizations in need of skills.
• Establish/Resource Creative Industries Hubs and Clusters in Townships for Digital Content 
Production including animation, gaming, virtual reality and augmented reality, photography, 
graphic design, sound production, audio design, film & video production, digital art production, 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   321
page |  119
transmedia, digital marketing. Cluster creative industries SMME’s in these hubs where a full 
value chain intervention from skills, to incubation, to content origination, content production 
and distribution in a networked system is supported, linked to industry. The Gauteng Economic 
development department is coordinating a process, along with most of the Gauteng metros/
municipalities (although it is industry driven) in which industry mentorship and partnership and 
access to local and African markets is already leveraged. This initiative can be capacitated and 
scaled with funding from the Seta’s as well as PPP arrangements. New foreign owned entrants 
to our market can be engaged with government as a facilitator, to invest in content production 
infrastructure via BBBEE equity equivalency processes etc. as well local  mobile companies (MTN, 
Vodacom, Cell C, Telkom, Virgin Mobile, Rain and other mobile network operators) to procure 
content from this network of township producers who are being mentored by industry to ensure 
quality content delivery. 
• Maximising the planned Digital Hubs Rollout: The currently budgeted for and planned 
government roll out of 100+ digital hubs should be leveraged for 4IR skills development, 4IR 
awareness programmes and social dialogue regarding 4IR in the SA context. The Hubs should 
be maximised to include the spaces and technology relevant to the full spectrum of digital skills 
(ICT and digital creative skills), competency skills (such as, creativity, critical thinking, problem 
solving, collaboration, negotiation) and entrepreneurship skills.
• Ring-fence UIF funds: Ring-fence a percentage UIF funds to use towards upgrading skills of the 
unemployed. By leveraging these funds unemployed individuals can be re-skilled within the six 
month timeframe of their UIF benefits cover and potentially job ready again.
• A national platform to educate, inform, update on training and other opportunities in the 4IR 
context should be established. This platform should be an online platform supported by a variety 
of campaigns in the public domain, events, workshops etc.
• Issues such as promoting social dialogue and collective representation of workers and employers, 
supporting and incentivizing entrepreneurship and harnessing technology for decent work and 
job creation must be mainstreamed and coordinated in business, labour and entrepreneurship 
bodies and fora.
• Create Social Protection Scheme For Human Capacity In the SMME & Informal Sectors. Human 
capacity in our informal economy and SMME’s requires investment in social protection systems 
as well as financial mechanisms to boost start up and early stage ventures. Enabling SMME’s 
access to appropriate technology will enhance their growth and ability to scale.
• Attract Critical Skills By Amending Prohibitive Legislation
a)  Amend section 19(4) of the Immigration Act be amended to specifically reference 4IR 
related skills. The amendment should better enable highly skilled immigrants to come 
and apply their trade in South Africa under favourable conditions. The attraction of highly 
sort-after 4IR skills be assist in accelerating the development of South Africa’s knowledge 
base and industries. These skills must not be restricted to academia but should include 
entrepreneurs who intend on starting businesses from South Africa.
• Amend Labour legislation to accommodate the Gig economy by recognizing Internet project 
work as legitimate work. This should include incentives for companies to build Gig Economy 
platforms to leverage South African 4IR skills for global demand. 
• Copyright & IP protection - The Copyright Amendment bill is currently with the President for 
signature. While better than the previous version, it is still highly controversial due to a “fair use” 
clause that has been included which potentially threatens creative content producers’ ownership 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
322  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  120
rights, and according to a PWC review of the draft legislation, could lead to inferior content 
production for academic textbooks and resources – impacting the skills sector significantly. IP 
protection and ownership is the bedrock of the creative economy so an in depth look at what 
this bill means in the context of 4IR and the creative economy as an emerging area for the future 
of work is important.
• Develop flagship full-spectrum incubator networks for AI and robotics that can build skills, 
knowledge, intellectual property, infrastructure, institutional linkages, and technological 
capabilities. Incubator networks must include business, government, academia, and civil 
society. Networks do not require large fiscal allocations, but can serve to enhance co-ordination, 
strengthen systems of innovation, link skills supply and skills demand, link technology developers 
and potential users, and connect pockets of excellence in a way that enables South Africans to 
be more globally competitive.
• Make it easier for skilled people to enter South Africa. 
• Establishment of a flagship social science research programme that focusses on the 4IR. This will 
build intellectual capital to benefit policy development, institutional programming, evidence-
based decision making, and thought leadership.
• Review tax structure on processed minerals used in 4IR components e.g. components for robots 
and robotics that are produced within the borders of our country. Impose a tax that will be less 
than when the minerals are exported without them being processed. These taxes will incentivise 
companies to build factories within the country and create products that speak to the future of 
the country and ultimately create jobs.
• Use virtual reality to train our health officials (Doctors, nurses and other professionals in the hospital) 
to ensure that they have the necessary experience to help the people within the hospital. Ensure 
that these virtual reality systems will be relevant and help within our medical fraternities and 
ecosystem.
• Government should improve the different funding agencies and leverage the experience and 
track records of venture capital firms that have proof that they can fund entrepreneurs for growth. 
Funders (public and private sector) should work together possibly through private partnerships 
to fund businesses in an agile way and in a way that aligns with Fourth Industrial Revolution 
opportunities. Duplicated funds across multiple government departments can possibly be 
pooled for Fourth Industrial Revolution aligned businesses. Government has a funding strength 
while there is funding mandate experience in Private Sector funders. We need to bring these 
strengths together for agile, efficient funding of SMMEs aligned to the 4IR.
• Government should provide free Wi-Fi hotspots within rural areas.
• Smart government: Empower and arm policymakers, parliamentary members and leading 
political parties with new age technology policies, for the responsible and conscious use of 
technology. Focus on data privacy and data protection laws and regulation, digital taxation draft 
law, (adopt the Turkey draft law), develop tax policies that can better account for operations of 
digital and virtual companies that have seen exponential growth as their services have become 
ubiquitous.  
• Unwavering Energy resources: Accelerate non-fossil fuels energy resources, conclude PPP 
arrangements for alternative, sustainable and cost-effective energy to empower high economic 
growth sectors to ensure 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   323
page |  121
• One stop destination for massive hyperscale data centres: Invest in digital infrastructure, prioritizing 
backhaul and last-mile transport networks and capitalize on the undersea cables landing in 
the country’s offshore to ensure South Africa becomes a one stop destination for hyperscale 
data centres. Localize manufacturing of components used for seamless connectivity, fibre optic 
cables, accessories, semiconductors, mobile devices 
• Knowledge economy skills: An overhaul of the basic education to include soft skills from early 
childhood,  Investing in high end computing facilities, machine learning/artificial intelligence 
special academic institutions (R&D) with practical real time projects exposure, to underpin 
the knowledge economy; innovative learning methods to empower the disable and all those 
coming from under-served areas.
• Cultivate the small business ecosystem: intentional investment to the SMME ecosystem in the 
commercialization of high value 4IR projects, beneficiation and unbundling of projects in key 
economic sectors.
• In light of recent retrenchments due to adoption of 4IR technologies, it is recommended that 
government considers incentive package for companies that upskill their workforce for the era 
4IR and beyond. 
• In view of the need to create new products and services to grow the economy, all grades in 
secondary school level must offer an introductory course in industrial revolutions and technologies 
of 4IR. At university level, each year of study must include a course on how technologies of 4IR 
could be used to build a smart South Africa. Students must collaborate across faculties and 
universities on project basis, with presentation each quarter, and final presentation at the final 
year of study. 
• Start-ups and SMMEs must be provided free access to all 4IR technology platforms (including 
university laboratories) across the country and expert advice for the purpose of product and 
business model development. Technology Innovation Agency and the CSIR could jointly execute 
this recommendation. 
• Intellectual property regime to be reconsidered in view of the need to be dynamic and enable 
speedy commercialization of research output into product and services.  
• The DTIC and DSI to conduct a 4IR industry audit, and companies that are found to be at risk 
of being disrupted by 4IR must be assisted to upgrade and transition through the adoption 
technologies of 4IR and new business models.  Owing to the rapid pace of change, such an 
audit must be conducted on a regular basis. 
• The current carbon intensive energy system is hindrance for new investment, it is recommended 
that a suite of 4IR technologies be identified and utilised for upgrade and transition towards a 
low carbon energy system and economy. 
• Data remain a barrier for our people to be participant of 4IR across the region, as a start, it is 
recommended that government considers engagement with SADC member states to ensure 
that data purchased in this region can be used across.
• South Africa takes a policy position, in line with NDP , to set itself up as a regional financial centre 
within Africa. This would include things like setting itself up as a fintech hub (sandbox, etc) and 
adopting agile governance principles. Even the digitisation of government to enable ease of 
doing business. Policy, law and regulation should align with such an overall policy. 
• South African adopting a policy position to have tech hubs using similar thinking to Special 
Economic Zones (SEZs). This includes looking at the business support environment, having a visa 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
324  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  122
that allow us to attract top talent, making it easy for international firms to set up business here, as 
well as making it cost effective for entrepreneurs to start high tech businesses. The idea is that we 
are competing globally anyway and it is better to have firms operate here and us learning from 
them than our talent leaving to go to other hubs. 
• Start a 4IR/tech/innovation fund as a PPP to invest in local innovation. This has to be run by 
specialists that ensures that bankable projects with smart business plans are invested in. 
• South Africa must develop a platform that facilitates the matching of funding needs with 
investment opportunities. The platform should serve as a ‘one-stop-shop’ for 4IR related funding, 
including access to business support services that we help with the development of smart and 
sustainable business models and the provision of advice to help bankable projects provide the 
information necessary to help them match with available products while further helping investors 
more accurately assess the risk available in an investment opportunity. This should also be run as 
a PPP with the PC4IR playing a key role in its deployment.
• Policy labs and regulatory sandboxes: Globally (or at least in democratic states), there is also 
increasing recognition that public participation is critical. The USA and the EU have adopted 
systems of Policy Labs - multi-disciplinary government teams experimenting with innovation 
methods, more precisely design, to actively involve citizens, academia and business at multiple 
levels of the public service and policy development process. Government in partnership with 
small business, corporates, academia, and civil society can, through Policy Labs.
• Identify the needs of citizens, policy-makers and academics in the context of policy-
making through a review of the literature, policy procedures and semi-structured interviews 
with citizens, policy-makers and academics;
• Determine if, where and how design research might enhance policy-making by facilitating 
workshops with citizens, academics and policy-makers from Policy Labs; 
• Develop and test tools, methods and metrics to support the effective use of design 
research in policy-making with Policy Labs and facilitating further workshops with citizens; 
• Deliver a robust and commonly accepted Design for Policy Toolkit to stakeholders that will 
be widely disseminated to academics, policy-makers and designers;
• Test the impact of a policy on the impacted stakeholders and the economy prior to 
implementation.
South Africa should adopt a similar policy and regulatory process to harness the positive effect of 
the 4IR on its economy, society and government. Regulatory sandboxes are partnerships between 
business and government to test products in a controlled environment to determine their impact 
on consumer, business and the economy prior to following a complicated regulatory process. The 
WEF suggests public-private collaborative governance where governments can design policies 
that leave more opportunity for the private sector to contribute innovative solutions. For example, 
in Rwanda the government partnered with the WEF to draft and adopt drone regulations that 
take into account the drone’s mission in addition to its physical specifications. This approach 
encourages clear policy setting, enabling government to develop a new kind of policy maker, 
regulator and legislator.
• Data policy in South Africa is led by the Department of Communication and Digital Technology. 
However, from a strategic point of view, data policy is cross-cutting, in that it impacts on other 
strategic areas, such as Industry 4.0, artificial intelligence, biotechnology, and capability-
building. Across this broad scope, several strategic principles may guide data policy. Globally 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   325
page |  123
there is a policy tension between the imperative of open data and the imperative of data 
privacy. Achieving a balance between these two opposing principles is an important part of an 
overall approach to data policy. 
Clear measures must be adopted to reduce the cost of data for the poor. If one places the 
digital divide at the centre of the analysis, the question of data costs for poor people in South 
African might be the most critical issue in the overall South African response to the 4IR.
A national data policy is required to steer the rollout of 5G networks. Splicing is an option that merits 
exploration, taking into account questions of data access and questions of enabling Industry 
4.0 in South Africa. South Africa must support data sovereignty and internalise the beneficiation 
of South African data. Sectoral responses are also required. For example, ongoing review of the 
impact of the 4IR in the financial sector is needed in order to safeguard financial stability. Cyber 
security is increasing important to national security. South Africa’s cyber security systems may 
require enhanced artificial intelligence capabilities. Finally, South Africa’s Information Regulator 
protects data privacy and helps South Africa meet international privacy standards. This function 
may in future play a greater role and require expanded capabilities, funding and support.
• Research, Development, and Innovation (RDI): Building RDI capabilities is strategically central. 
More progressive governments have a significant focus on RDI. Without the strengthening of 
innovation systems and RDI capabilities, South Africa will not be positioned to move towards 
the technological frontier, enhance competitiveness, or harness new technologies towards 
developmental aims. RDI policy could include increased support directed through existing 
instruments, such as research chairs, centres of excellence, the National Research Foundation, 
and research programmes within universities and science councils. New instruments and 
mechanisms may also be considered. The Department of Science and Innovation (DSI) is the 
lead department for 4IR related RDI policy. The Department has proposed the establishment 
of a ‘Converging Technologies Platform’ (CTP) as a potential hub for 4IR RDI. The CTP would be 
guided by a policy advisory service, the ‘Inclusive Development Platform’ (IDP). 
Building capabilities through education and RDI is a prerequisite for national economic 
competitiveness, but to harness strengthened capabilities towards economic objectives may 
require dedicated policy interventions. Industrial and economic development policy options 
include incentives, SME programmes, and incubators. Some countries, for example Italy, have 
introduced a R&D tax incentive for industry 4.0 start-ups. A tax deduction related to training and 
skills development as well as building of manufacturing plants is an option. Digital innovation hubs, 
technology incubators, and SME development programmes all have the potential to support 
new businesses and SMEs. Incubators could be domain specific (for example, AI incubator, 
ecommerce incubator, 3D printing incubator) or converged (for example, 3D bioprinting 
incubator). 
Local manufacturing hubs must be mandatory supported by enabling policy and law, South 
Africa’s youth must have access to funding structures to solve local problems through local design 
(from Define (the problem), Ideate, Prototype, Test) and implement. Funding and support should 
be accelerated when these manufacturing hubs are solving issues that address unemployment, 
poverty and inequality.
• Public sector innovation Smart cities and human settlements: The technologies of the 4IR could 
be harnessed to strengthen the capacity of government to provide service delivery. This requires 
the building of internal government capabilities across a range of technological domains, 
including the use of AI and data analytics in governance, as well as the use of 4IR technologies 
to deliver services as diverse as health, security, sanitation, housing, environmental protection, 
economic development, and education, among many others. 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
326  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  124
A national policy framework could provide guidelines for unique programmes within South Africa’s 
metropolitan areas, as well as for non-metro human settlements. A national policy framework 
could make provision for devolved policy-making, while at the same time establishing a 
mechanisms for the managers and strategic actors involved at the city level to interact, develop 
cohesive programmes, and foster mutual learning. Government entities must be geared towards 
rapid innovation, duplication and fragmentation across state owned entities must be addressed 
urgently. Innovation and funding cannot be restricted to monopoly, unskilled, slow transforming 
state entities, South Africa’s youth and small business must lead innovation and must be funded 
accordingly.
• Future Minerals: keep strategic mining licenses and ownership of critical minerals that will be 
the driver of 4IR and beyond localized at no less than 70%. South Africa will be vital in the effort 
to meet growing demand for Manganese (Mn), Lithium (Li), Calcium Fluorite (CaF2), Platinum, 
Chromium, Zinc, Copper, Cobalt, Bauxite and Rare Earth Minerals (Neodymium, Dysprosium, 
ytterbium and Cerium which are all sitting under our ground. All these must be kept within our 
borders. 
• Beneficiation: This will be very critical in ensuring that we grow our economy and create much 
needed jobs. Beneficiation will looks at specific areas where we are already excelling or entering 
like HF (Hydro Flourite) production, electrolytes, cathode and more. 
• Support the commercialisation of local innovations and start-ups through microloans, hubs with 
subsidised bandwidth, entrepreneurial and leadership training. And establish a Risk-Fund. 
• Agriculture sector: Opportunity to finance agricultural co-operatives and to incentivise support 
for small farmers from commercial agriculture to adopt technologies such as satellite imaging 
from drones, the IoT and Artificial Intelligence. 
• Adapt 4IR Technologies like AI, big data, IOT to strengthen the manufacturing and the agriculture 
sector by encouraging the use of technology while training and creating jobs for skilled personnel.
Consultation Period 
• Wanting to hear from South African business, government, labour, academia and SMMEs; dates 
for consultations across SA; channels for submitting feedback & deadline of 30 November for 
feedback)
• Case studies of 4IR use in SA - pockets of excellence: submit videos, images or writeups (can be 
used on the website/portal)
• Initial stakeholder consultations were held to solicit valuable input. It must be noted that this is 
a first draft and stakeholder consultations are ongoing. The first draft attempts to establish a 
framework and identify
• A challenge noted in investigating solutions for South Africa for 4IR is that multiple sectors and 
stakeholders are working on solutions, but in isolation of each other. The urgency to respond 
to 4IR necessitates that there is coordination and integration of work with common strategies 
developed for implementation across sectors.   A human-centric strategy will require a 
significant contribution from all stakeholders involved. Business (Big Business, SMMEs and Labour), 
Government, Academia and Civil Society will be required to establish synergies based on trust, 
responsibility and accountability. A prerequisite for the success of such an initiate will require a 
resolute commitment from each stakeholder towards a common goal. A committed stakeholder 
coupled with a suitably enabled environment would create the possibility for South Africa to 
realise its full potential. 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   327
page |  125
Way Forward 
Consultations and further research, finalising the strategy with key recommendations, initial report to Cabinet 
and President in March 2020.
Development of Scenarios and Next steps
As we consider the future of South Africa, the work will pivot towards an analysis of the choices that confront 
the country. It is important to embrace the language of choice as it also references a key difference in the 
way in which we will participate in the future, as free and fully informed protagonists in our own future. Indeed, 
there are dilemmas to be resolved: what ought to be prioritised; what sacrifices should be made; what 
innovations are needed to leapfrog our current constraints; who leads and who follows. These are not simple 
dilemmas. Indeed, they are compounded by the urgency imposed on us by the full breadth of our history.
The balance of our choices and dilemmas will result in the generation of Scenarios. Herbst and Mills (2006) 
state that “scenarios are a way of producing alternative futures based on various mixtures of assumptions, 
facts, trends and areas where extra understanding is needed for a particular scenario project.” Inevitably, our 
scenarios will hold together the best and worst outcomes, recognising that the primary function of understanding 
socio-economic impact is to produce the best possible path forward for all South Africans, including those 
not yet born. The Critical Uncertainties and Drivers for Change are part of the main considerations when 
developing scenarios. 
Critical uncertainties include:
• Corruption
• External networks, relationships and power structures
• Peace and stability 
• Foreign and local investment
• External networks, relationships and power structures 
Drivers for Change include:
• Economy
• Society
• Infrastructure
• Environment and Natural Resources
The Commission will over the next few months consult Business, Government, Academia, Small, Medium, 
Micro Enterprises (SMMEs) and Citizens to gather inputs for the development of the Scenarios. The Commission 
will, through the consultation sessions, refine and recommend a Scenario for the country in 4IR. The scenario 
will be reviewed against the WEF Global Competitiveness Criteria and the UN Human Development Index to 
ensure that the country can optimise its competitiveness and the wellbeing of South Africans.
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
328  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  126
ANNEXURE A: Emerging Trends, Increasing & Decreasing 
Roles In Selected Industries
Source: Nedlac Futures of Work in South Africa, March 2019:  
Analysis of selected industries, pg. 64-93.  
Institute of Futures Research
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
1. Healthcare Aging populations
The rise of non-
communicable 
diseases. Intelligent, 
connected 
‘wearables. Shift from 
short term prevention 
to long term 
overall well-being 
(wellness) Informed 
and empowered 
consumers.Flipping 
the health care 
delivery model from 
business-to-consumer 
(B2C) to consumer-to-
business (C2B). 
Business and care 
delivery models, 
aided by digital 
technologies, may 
help to address 
today’s problems 
and may build 
a sustainable 
foundation for 
affordable, 
accessible, high 
quality health care 
for all.
Recreational  
wellness therapist
Nurse practitioner
Home Health aide
Online caregivers
VR experience  
designers
Care-bots
App developers 
(linking medical 
devices)
Medical and 
clinical lab 
technologists
Medical 
transcriptionists
Dental lab 
technicians
Dental hygienists
Opticians 
dispensing
Medical records 
and health info 
clerks
Data interoperability, 
security, and 
ownership moves 
to the forefront 
Aging workforce, 
rising demand for 
health care services 
and reduction in 
physician working 
hours are driving 
shortages of 
appropriately skilled 
people
Geriatric  
carer
Medical tourism
Geneticist
Drome monitors 
(new delivery  
models)
Co-bot surgeons
Wellness monitors
Pharmacy aides
Medical equipment 
preparers
Medical insurance 
claim clerks
Trainers (replaced 
by VR applications)
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   329
page |  127
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
2.  Informal 
Sector
Rise of collectives 
and cooperatives. 
Supermarkets and 
other retailers 
creating offers to 
service consumers 
at the lower end 
of the market are 
encroaching on what 
was the sole domain 
of spaza shops and 
informal operators. 
Opportunities 
opening up through 
recycling 
Gig economy 
Digital platforms
Digital proficiency 
Connectivity
Changing 
mental models 
will continue to 
‘de-stigmatise’ 
the notion of not 
having a full-time 
job.
Gig-like services
Elder care spe-
cialists
Personal security 
services
Informal banks 
(stokvels)
Day care special-
ists
Crafters (makers 
movement)
Networking spe-
cialists (connect-
ing people)
Home care spe-
cialists
(Social) media 
specialists
Data analysts for 
informal sector
App developers 
to connect infor-
mal traders & ser-
vice providers
 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
330  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  128
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
3. Energy 
Sector: Oil 
& Coal
Legislation and 
regulation around 
carbon emissions
Technology 
innovation
Water, food and 
climate change
Globalised, 
urbanised, 
connected world
 
Urbanisation as 
well as an in-
creased consumer 
focus on environ-
mentally friendly 
and healthy life-
styles could en-
courage cycling, 
walking and car 
sharing as alterna-
tive forms of mo-
bility
Green energy fo-
cus
Solar technicians
Designers of solar 
systems
Energy optimisers
Multi-source grid 
managers
Solar Engineers
Wind energy 
technicians
Process 
automation 
specialists
Data analysts
Forecourt 
destination 
managers
Re-trainers 
(enabling oil & 
coal workers to 
acquire new skills)
Designers of wind 
energy systems
Mining plant 
operators
Oil & coal 
extraction workers
Power plant 
operators
Inspectors, testers, 
samplers, weighers
Procurement clerks
Material recording 
and stock-keeping 
clerks
Excavating, 
loading & dragline 
operators
Conveyor operators
Mapping 
technicians
Oil refining plant 
operators
Planning & 
expediting clerks
Geological 
& petroleum 
technicians
Drilling & boring 
machine setters & 
operators
Crushing machine 
setters & operators
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   331
page |  129
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
4. The Trans-
port Sector
Self-driving cars
Autonomous trucks
Aviation and other 
things taking flight. 
Remote-controlled 
cargo ships
Machine learning 
leads to optimisation
 
 
The rapid pace of 
urbanisation puts 
added pressure on 
already strained 
infrastructure, 
which needs to be 
designed to absorb 
such growth, and 
be as efficient as 
possible
 Along with the 
pressures, come 
opportunities – the 
increased size 
of cities widens 
their power and 
tax base and 
enables a greater 
investment in 
public transport
Data analysts
AI & machine 
learning 
specialists
System optimisers
Infrastructure 
designers
Transport hub 
experience 
managers
Solution designers
Transport 
concierge
Drone operators
VR training 
development
Blockchain 
management of 
transport routes & 
bookings
Supply chain 
& logistics 
specialists 
Taxi & bus drivers
Cashiers & ticket 
clerks
Route monitors
Cargo vessel crew
Train drivers
Cargo & freight 
clerks
Parking lot 
attendants
Truck drivers
Route monitors
Railroad brake, 
signal & switch 
operators
Weighbridge 
Operators
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
332  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  130
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
5. Public  
Sector
Fragmenting global 
order
Expanding individual 
power
Technological ad-
vances
Demographics: Mil-
lennials are pushing 
innovation and get-
ting involved in gov-
ernment
In most countries 
across  the globe, 
the public  sector 
is transforming, 
downsizing, re-
vamping,  and be-
ing overhauled
The pace and 
dimensions of 
this change are 
unprecedented 
- driven by budget-
ary constraints and 
new approaches 
to public service 
delivery
 Public Sector re-
fers to all levels of 
government
Digital transfor-
mation specialists
Digital currency 
people
Embassies taking 
a bigger role as 
business develop-
ers & facilitators
People facilitat-
ing optimisation 
across depart-
ments
Process automa-
tion specialists
“Connectors” 
across depart-
ments – 
to identify oppor-
tunities 
for working to-
gether
Accounting, book-
keeping & payroll 
clerks
Administrative staff 
(capturing & shar-
ing info)
Material recording 
& stock-keeping 
clerks
Ballot/vote counters
Couriers & messen-
gers
Order clerks
Cybersecurity 
monitors & 
professionals
AI ethics officers & 
coders
People facilitating 
optimisation 
across 
departments
Re-purposers: 
people 
turning concrete 
jungles into 
greener spaces
Internal auditors
Roles that are 
duplicated across 
departments
Roles that build 
unnecessary levels 
of hierarchy into 
the system – move 
towards flatter 
structures
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   333
page |  131
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
6. Services 
Sector
Globalisation enables 
a more mobile 
workforce
Demographic shifts 
are having interesting 
effects on the service 
sector
Innovations in 
technology mean 
that machines have 
the ability to aid and 
sometimes replace 
people. 
Advanced user 
interfaces enable 
computers to 
respond directly to 
a wider range of 
human requests, 
thus augmenting the 
work of highly skilled 
labour, while allowing 
some types of jobs 
to become fully 
automated
The service 
industry isgenerally 
believed to 
require person-to-
person contact 
in the delivery of 
mostly intangible 
products
Market trends 
in the service 
industry are 
being influenced 
primarily by the 
use of technology 
to streamline 
operations, provide 
resources to staff, 
and, in some 
cases, to replace 
the need for staff
Digital transfor-
mation specialists
Human ma-
chine integrative 
coaches
User experience 
designers
AI testers
AI & machine 
learning special-
ists
Augmented reali-
ty journey builder
Gig-designers
Bot-managers
Artists that create 
sensory-focused 
items
Repurposing 
agents (for waste 
& redundant 
items)
Client information 
&customer service 
clerks
Rental clerks
Telemarketers
Mass travel agents
Tour guides
Legal clerks
Data entry clerks
Freight clerks
Credit analysts
Financial analysts
Brokerage clerks
Cashiers & tellers
Procurement clerks
Accounting & 
payroll clerks
Experience 
agents (travel 
agents that 
design & book 
customised 
experiences
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
334  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  132
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
7. The Educa-
tion Sector
Globalisation: Within 
the next ten years, 
the majority of the 
world’s population 
will consist of 
the middle class 
increasing pressure 
to provide better 
education for more 
people; The stakes 
are great: inequality 
of opportunity 
can translate into 
disparities in well-
being, and drive 
political and social 
unrest
In an increasingly 
globalised and 
connected world, 
education is the 
heart of economic 
and social 
prosperity
Designers of 
learning offers for 
mobile devices
Curated 
knowledge 
specialists
Learning progress 
analysts
Registration clerk
Accounting & 
bookkeeping
Mediocre teachers
Librarians
Proofreaders
Digitisation. Improved 
user interfaces and 
algorithms building 
upon big data could 
have a significant 
impact on Education 
and how it is taught
Ageing
 – enhancing com-
petitiveness and 
improving the lives 
of every single per-
son
Transition 
coaches 
(preparing people 
for next jobs)
Special needs 
education 
facilitators
Education 
experience 
customisers
Blended learning 
customisers
AI coders for 
teaching and 
learning
Cross disciplinary 
integration of 
knowledge
Printing press 
operators
Teachers that just 
share content
Education that is 
nor personalised/
customised
Office & 
administrative 
clerks
Attendance control 
clerks
Facilities teaching 
outdated skills & 
materials
Statistics assistants 
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   335
page |  133
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
8. Digital building 
blocks such as big 
data, the Internet of 
Things (IoT), artificial 
intelligence and ma-
chine learning, as 
well as blockchain
New physical systems 
such as autonomous 
vehicles, advanced 
robotics, additive 
manufacturing, ad-
vanced materials 
and nanotechnolo-
gies
Advances in science 
such as next-genera-
tion biotechnologies 
and genomics, and 
new energy technol-
ogies
Urbanisation de-
mands a different 
organisation of 
the food system in 
which the preser-
vation of foodstuffs 
becomes strategic. 
This is accompa-
nied, in middle-in-
come developing 
countries, by a die-
tary transition stim-
ulating new food 
categories, and 
by the demand for 
convenience and 
ready-to-eat foods
The key changes 
relate to demo-
graphics, the man-
agement of indi-
vidual household 
finances, and time 
constraints
Biotechnologist
Robotics special-
ists & engineers
Alternative pack-
aging advisors
Sensor specialists 
& technologists
Recipe develop-
ers
Transport econo-
mist
Data analysts
Nutritionists
Creators of ex-
periences (de-
velopers of the 
processing facility 
or the farm as a 
destination)
Sorters
Cutters
Packers
Quality checkers
Payroll and 
accounting clerks
Supply of plastic 
packaging
Administrative 
clerks
Logistics clerks
Control clerks 
(e.g. pressure, 
temperature)
Moving materials at 
processing facilities 
(forklift drivers, 
vehicle drivers, 
cargo-handling 
equipment)
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
336  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  134
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
The Internet of Things 
(IoT): In combination 
with blockchain, 
could enable re-
al-time product 
tracking, reduce 
adulteration and 
shed light on supply 
and demand imbal-
ances
Mobile applications 
have the potential to 
connect consumers 
with an overabun-
dance of food to 
those in need
Online marketplaces 
could link consumers 
directly to farmers, 
dramatically simpli-
fying supply chains. 
Leverage big data 
and advanced an-
alytics to better un-
derstand supply and 
demand imbalances
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   337
page |  135
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
9. Financial  
Sector
Rapid digital 
adoption
Software platforms, 
digitisation and the 
development of 
applications
Better connectivity
Customer 
preferences and 
expectations
Emerging alternative 
models of lending 
and capital raising
Technologies like big 
data analytics and 
artificial intelligence
Non-traditional 
players are entering 
the market 
In South Africa, our 
financial services 
sector is made up 
of specialist firms, 
insurers, personal 
finance providers 
as well as retail 
banks. A number 
of driving forces 
are shaping this 
industry
Conversational  
interface  
designers
Compliance ex-
pert
Mixed reality  
experience  
designer
Cloud  
banking
Cybersecurity  
expert
Platform  
creators
Investor  
protection spe-
cialist
Interconnectors  
between business 
& customers, em-
ployers & employ-
ees, sellers &  
buyers
Data entry clerks
Insurance 
underwriting clerks
Telemarketers
Tellers
Credit analysts
Statistics clerks
Accounting & 
auditors
Claims adjustors & 
examiners
Administrative 
service managers
Tax examiners & 
revenue agents
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
338  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  136
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
Financial services 
& fin-tech con-
cierge
Hyper-personali-
sation inventors
Interaction policy 
writers
Financial ecosys-
tem creators
10. Mining 
Industry
Drones, proximity 
sensors & improved 
communication 
systems
Software applications 
for efficiency
Autonomous trucks & 
loaders
Improved methods 
of collecting & using 
data
Collaboration 
between business, 
Labour, communities 
& government
Methods & 
technologies to re-
mine existing waste 
dumps
In South Africa 
mining has had 
a significant 
effect on our how 
economy, and 
in many places, 
our societies 
developed. At 
the moment the 
sector is under 
pressure. Falling 
commodities 
prices and the 
depletion of 
easier-to-reach 
ore bodies put 
pressure on the 
profitability of 
mining operations. 
Mining in South 
Africa is mostly 
deep and 
therefore risky and 
expensive
Payroll & 
timekeeping 
clerks, inspectors, 
sorters, weighers, 
samplers
Procurement 
clerks
Crushing 7 
grinding machine 
operators & 
setters
Surveying 
& mapping 
technicians
Rock splitters
Excavating & 
loading machine 
& dragline 
operators
Conveyor 
operators
Specialists in re-
mining of waste 
dumps
Workplace & 
worker experience 
reformers
Underground drone 
operators
Application 
developers
Data analysts
Collaborator
Re-designers of 
underground 
operations
Autonomous truck 
& loader supervisor
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   339
page |  137
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
Freight & cargo 
agents
Crane, hoist & 
winch operators
Truck & ship 
loaders
Tool & die makers
11. Manufac-
turing  
Industry
Changes in consumer 
preferences
Slowing of individual 
consumption in 
traditional markets
Volatile currency
Middle income 
growth in Africa
Automization 
& digitization –  
crashing of the value 
chain, elimination of 
some roles
Technologies such as 
mobile apps, sensors, 
next generation 
robotics, autonomous 
things, AI, 3D 
printing, wearables, 
nanotechnology & 
advanced materials 
will change product 
types and production 
processes
SA has a well-
established 
and diverse 
manufacturing 
base supported 
by fairly efficient 
transport & logistics 
systems
Competition 
from low-wage, 
high productivity 
nations like Brazil 
& China will 
continue to have 
a significant effect 
on our sector
Digital  
manufacturers
Worker  
experience cre-
ators
Factory  
automation
Value chain 
“greeners”
Digital  
fluency  
trainers
Production line 
worker coaches & 
re-skillers
Creators and 
facilitators of cus-
tomised offers
Supervisor: 
Autonomous 
things
Africa  
markets  
analyst
Cargo & freight 
agents
Inspectors, testers, 
sorters, weighers, 
samplers
Machine setters & 
operators
Procurement clerks
Packing & filling 
machine operators
Machine feeders & 
offbearers
Assembly line 
workers
Payroll & 
timekeeping clerks
Timing & device 
adjusters
Mould makers
Mechanical 
drafters
Patternmakers
Painting & coating 
workers
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
340  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  138
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
12. Auto-
motive 
Industry
Increasing 
environmental 
pressure  tied to 
emissions
Changing customer 
preferences
 
Towards 2030 
the industry 
may experience 
structural shifts in 
market demand, 
with full electric or 
hydrogen fuel cell 
vehicles entering 
the market
Non-fossil 
fuel energy 
technologists
Cyber-security 
experts (for  
in-vehicle 
systems)
Value chain 
“greeners”
Digital fluency 
trainers
In-vehicle  
info-tainment 
system 
developers
Production line 
worker re-skillers
Robot engineers
System optimisers
Assembly line work-
ers
Welders, cutters, 
solderers,brazers
Procurement clerks
Inspectors, testers, 
samplers
Crane, hoist & 
winch operators
Automobile testers
Car salespeople
Mechanics & diag-
nosticians
Machine setters & 
operators
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   341
page |  139
 SECTORS TRENDS DRIVING 
INDUSTRY CHANGE
ENVISIONED FUTURE INCREASING 
ROLES
DECREASING ROLES
13. Agricultural  
Industry
Mobile services for 
farmers for market 
access
Big data, analytics & 
blockchain
Gene-editing 
technologies
Advanced precision 
agriculture 
technologies
Climate change
 
Consumers 
may demand 
that their food 
meet minimum 
sustainability 
& health 
requirements
This information 
can be made 
available to them 
by packing-based 
blockchain apps. 
Consumers may 
switch their diets 
to plant-based 
or cell-grown 
alternatives or 
demand that the 
animals they eat 
are fed less insect-
based proteins
 Pesticide handlers& 
applicators
Payroll & 
timekeeping clerks
Fence erectors
Purchasing agents
Cooling equipment 
operators
Inspectors, 
samplers, weighers
Drying & cooling 
equipment 
operators
Fishers & related 
fishing workers
General farm 
worker
Product 
representatives
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
342  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  140
REFERENCES 
1. https://www.weforum.org/about/the-fourth-industrial-revolution-by-klaus-schwab
2. https://assets.ey.com/content/dam/ey-sites/ey com/en_gl/topics/workforce/Seagate-WP-
DataAge2025-March-2017.pdf
3. https://www.seekmomentum.com/blog/manufacturing/the-evolution-of-industry-from-1-to-4
4. https://www.sahistory.org.za/dated-event/first-railway-line-south-africa-between-durban-and-point-
officially-opened
5. https://www.dtps.gov.za/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=811:president-cyril-
ramaphosa-appoints-commission-on-fourth-industrial-revolution&catid=13&Itemid=138
6. https://www.weforum.org/focus/fourth-industrial-revolution
7. https://www.weforum.org/about/the-fourth-industrial-revolution-by-klaus-schwab
8. http://www.jaist.ac.jp/~bao/AI/OtherAIstrategies/An%20Overview%20of%20National%20AI%20
Strategies%20%E2%80%93%20Politics%20+%20AI%20%E2%80%93%20Medium.pdf
9. India, 2018  http://niti.gov.in/writereaddata/files/document_publication/NationalStrategy-for-AI-
Discussion-Paper.pdf
10. India, 2018  http://niti.gov.in/writereaddata/files/document_publication/NationalStrategy-for-AI-
Discussion-Paper.pdf
11. United Kingdom 2017, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/
attachment_data/file/664563/industrial-strategy-white-paper-web-ready-version.pdf
12. United States of America 2019, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/National-AI-
Research-and-Development-Strategic-Plan-2019-Update-June-2019.pdf
13. https://flia.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/A-New-Generation-of-Artificial-Intelligence-Development-
Plan-1.pdf
14. https://flia.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/A-New-Generation-of-Artificial-Intelligence-Development-
Plan-1.pdf
15. https://flia.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/A-New-Generation-of-Artificial-Intelligence-Development-
Plan-1.pdf
16. https://flia.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/A-New-Generation-of-Artificial-Intelligence-Development-
Plan-1.pdf
17. https://www.gov-online.go.jp/cam/ s5/eng/index.html
18. https://www.nrf.gov.sg/programmes/artificial-intelligence-r-d-programme
19. https://www.nrf.gov.sg/programmes/artificial-intelligence-r-d-programme
20. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Lq4o7_MXzRh6wBeIoRSVdAAB867MwdZqTvm7MmMyz4s/
edit#heading=h.gjdgxs
21. http://www.mpc.gov.my/industry4wrd/
22. https://futureoflife.org/ai-policy-kenya/
23. https://www.industry.gov.au/strategies-for-the-future/boosting-innovation-and-science
24. https://www.cifar.ca/ai/pan-canadian-artificial-intelligence-strategy
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   343
page |  141
25. https://futureoflife.org/ai-policy-russia/
26. https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2019/06/03/pr19191-south-africa-imf-staff-concludes-visit-to-
south-africa
27. World Economic Forum ,2018 ,Shaping the Sustainability of Production Systems: Fourth Industrial 
Revolution technologies for competitiveness and sustainable growth Online available at: http://www3.
weforum.org/docs/WEF_Shaping_the_Sustainability_Production_Systems.pdf
28. World economic Forum,2019, Mining and metals https://www.weforum.org/agenda/archive/mining-
and-metals/
29. World Economic Forum ,2018 ,Shaping the Sustainability of Production Systems: Fourth Industrial 
Revolution technologies for competitiveness and sustainable growth Online available at: http://www3.
weforum.org/docs/WEF_Shaping_the_Sustainability_Production_Systems.pdf
30. National Strategy for Artificial Intelligence, Online available at https://niti.gov.in/writereaddata/files/
document_publication/NationalStrategy-for-AI-Discussion-Paper.pdf
31. World economic Forum,2019, A New Era of Manufacturing in the Fourth Industrial Revolution: http://
www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_The_New_Era_of_Manufacturing_in_the_Fourth_Industrial_Revolution.
pdf
32. World Economic Forum ,2018 ,Shaping the Sustainability of Production Systems: Fourth Industrial 
Revolution technologies for competitiveness and sustainable growth Online available at: http://www3.
weforum.org/docs/WEF_Shaping_the_Sustainability_Production_Systems.pdf
33. http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_TheGlobalCompetitivenessReport2019.pdf
34. http://hdr.undp.org/sites/default/files/2018_human_development_statistical_update.pdf
35. http://hdr.undp.org/en/content/human-development-index-hdi
36. http://www.hdr.undp.org/en/2019-report
37. http://hdr.undp.org/sites/all/themes/hdr_theme/country-notes/ZAF.pdf
38. http://www.hdr.undp.org/en/2019-report
39. http://hdr.undp.org/sites/all/themes/hdr_theme/country-notes/ZAF.pdf
40. https://youthexplorer.org.za/profiles/country-ZA-south-africa/
41. http://worldpopulationreview.com/countries/south-africa-population/
42. https://tradingeconomics.com/south-africa/age-dependency-ratio-percent-of-working-age-
population-wb-data.html
43. https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/economy/macro-economy/ensure-womens-place-in-
economy-change-patriarchal-mindset/article6941239.ece
44. All references to data from  the DPME (2019) is drawn and collated from the August 2019 
Development Indicators available from the DMPE’s online Resource Centre: https://www.dpme.gov.
za/publications/Pages/Reports-and-Other-Information-Products.aspx
45. https://www.gov.za/documents/presidential-commission-fourth-industrial-revolution-members-and-
terms-reference-9-apr
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
344  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  142
46. http://www.naci.org.za/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/South_African_Science_Technology_And_
Innovation_Indicators_Report_2017.pdf
47. http://www.naci.org.za/wp-content/uploads/2010/01/Review-of-the-White-Paper-on-Science-and-
Technology.pdf
48. https://www.saasta.ac.za/saasta_wp/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/FINAL-White-Paper-to-Cabinet_11-
March-2019.pd
49. https://www.saasta.ac.za/Media-Portal/download/bio_fs16.pdf  
50. https://www.sarima.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/SA-Innovation-Landcape-and-Framework.pdf
51. https://www.gov.za/sites/default/files/gcis_document/201809/41909gon954.pdf
52. http://www.naci.org.za/index.php/south-african-sti-indicators-booklet-2017/
53. https://www.accenture.com/_acnmedia/pdf-64/accenture-fiscal-2017-annual-report.pdf
54. http://www.naci.org.za/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/South_African_Science_Technology_And_
Innovation_Indicators 
_ Report_2017.pdf
55. National Planning Commission (NPC), National Development Plan 2030 - Our Future-make it work. 
2012.
56. https://www.angloamerican.com/futuresmart/our-industry/technology/trends-in-modern-mining-
technology
57. https://www.angloamerican.com/futuresmart/our-industry/technology/trends-in-modern-mining-
technology
58. https://www.angloamerican.com/futuresmart/our-industry/technology/trends-in-modern-mining-
technology
59. https://semiengineering.com/are-devices-getting-more-secure/
60. https://telecomworld.itu.int/2018-event/
61. WEF 2018 Report on the Future of Jobs
62. https://www.uwc.ac.za/News/Pages/The-role-of-of-Universities-in-the-Digital-Era.aspx
63. Mckinsey Global Institute: Technology, Jobs and the Future of Work (Briefing note prepared for the 
Fortune Vatican Forum), Dec 2016, updated Feb 2017
64. Source: Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market & Complexity. How to respond to the fourth 
industrial revolution, or the second information technology revolution? Dynamic new combinations 
between technology, market and society through open innovation.
65. Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market & Complexity. How to respond to the fourth industrial 
revolution, or the second information technology revolution? Dynamic new combinations between 
technology, market and society through open innovation
66. WEF White paper: Accelerating Workforce Reskilling for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. An agenda for 
leaders to shape the future of education, gender and work, July 2017
67. Work for a Brighter future; Global Commission on the Future of Work; International Labour Organisation 
(2019) Paper Series ILO
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   345
page |  143
68. McKinsey Global Institute: Skills Shift. Automation and the Future of the Workforce, May 2018
69. McKinsey Global Institute: Skills Shift. Automation and the Future of the Workforce, May 2018
70. https://www.creativenz.govt.nz/blog/creativity-will-boost-career-prospects-in-the-fourth-industrial-
revolution
71. StatsSA
72. worldpopulationreview.com
73. Department of Higher Education and Training 2019
74. World Bank 2019
75. Nedlac: Futures of Work in South Africa, March 2016. Institute for Futures Research
76. StatsSA, www.statssa.gov.za
77. http://theconversation.com/south-africa-has-a-reading-crisis-why-and-what-can-be-done-about-
it-88711
78.  Statistics on Post-School Education & Training in South Africa: 2016
79. Creative Schools, Robinson K. & Aronica L, 2016
80. Using Futures Studies Methodologies to Explore the Economic Participation of  the Older Cohorts of 
South Africa’s Population Towards 2030: Andre Roux, Doris Vijoen, 2018.
81. World Economic Forum: The Future of Jobs and Skills in Africa. Preparing the region for the fourth 
industrial revolution. WEF (Executive Briefing), May 2017
82. African Development Bank: Creating Decent Jobs – Strategies, Policies and Instruments, 2019
83. International Labour Organisation: The rise of the “just-in-time workforce”: On-demand work, 
crowdwork and labour protection in the “gigeconomy”, 2016
84. Nedlac: Futures of Work in South Africa, March 2016. Institute for Futures Research
85. https://www.accenture.com/_acnmedia/pdf-90/accenture-inclusive-future-of-work-full-report.pdf
86. Hallam, S. (2010). The power of music: Its impact on the intellectual, social and personal 
development of children and young people. International Journal of Music Education
87. https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2016/01/what-is-the-fourth-industrial-revolution/
88. https://www.itweb.co.za/content/o1Jr5MxEAX8qKdWL
89. http://www2.itif.org/2019-submarine-cables.pd
90. https://www.digitaltransport.eu/2019/pages/sessions-description
91. https://www.sysgroup.com/resources/blog/cloud-computing-in-2018
92. https://www.forbes.com/sites/ellistalton/2018/01/22/why-blockchain-is-key-to-transforming-how-
physical-infrastructure-works-and-how-we-think-about-it/#3702a14c4875
93. https://cisp.cachefly.net/assets/articles/attachments/03470_pansoutafrlanboaaa10.pdf
94. http://pdronline.co.uk/blog/2017/09/people-powering-policy
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
346  No. 43834  GO VERNMENT GAZETTE, 23 OCTOBER 2020
page |  144
UJ_1  http://www3.weforum.org/docs/GCR2018/05FullReport/TheGlobalCompetitivenessReport2018.pdf
UJ_2 http://reports.weforum.org/digital-transformation/wp-content/blogs.dir/94/mp/files/pages/files/wef-dti-
mining-and-metals-white-paper.pdf
UJ_3  http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_The_future__of_financial_services.pdf
UJ 4 https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/04/05/seagate_sponsors_refashioned_idc_digital_universe_
blather/ https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/04/05/seagate_sponsors_refashioned_idc_digital_
universe_blather/ 
UJ_5 https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/
file/664563/industrial-strategy-white-paper-web-ready-version.pdf
UJ 6 https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/
file/664563/industrial-strategy-white-paper-web-ready-version.pdf
UJ7 https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/IT.NET.BBND.P2?locations=ZA
UJ8  https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/IT.CEL.SETS.P2
UJ9 https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/IT.NET.SECR.P6
UJ 10 https://blog.euromonitor.com/south-africa-the-most-unequal-income-distribution-in-the-world/
UJ 11 https://www.submarinecablemap.com
UJ 12 https://www.southafricanmi.com/south-africas-economic-history.html
This gazette is also available free online at www.gpwonline.co.za
 STAATSKOERANT, 23 OKT OBER 2020  No. 43834   347

